****ABDUCTION OF TWO BRTF EMPLOYEES FROM 7 KMS AWAY FROM TUIPUIBARI (I.E. ABOUT 50 KMS FROM WEST PHAILENG),****

****MAMIT DISTRICT****ON****2.2.2015.****

  On 2.2.2015 at around 8:00AM, a combined group of National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) and Bru Democratic Front of Mizoram (BDFM) militants numbering around 9 (nine) and carrying 4(four) nos. of AK-47 Rifle, knife, etc stopped one Truck (Tipper) bearing Regn. No. GE-70935. (belonging to BRTF-481 RMPL) and one Motor Cycle coming from Tuipuibari, Mamit District at about 7 Kms away from Tuipuibari (i.e. about 50 Kms from West Phaileng). The militants initially taken all the occupants of the truck (i.e, 16 BRTF employees and 5 civilians) and Bike rider namely Mangala Basu, teacher (SSA), Rajiv Nagar to the jungle of Dampa Sanctuary. Later on, at about one and half hour, the abductors released 20 (twenty) hostages and abducted 2(two) BRTF employees namely 1) Overseer (JE), Shri Hokum Singh (51 yrs), Lowakhund village, P.O. Neuna Majra, District - Rohtak, Haryana 2) Driver of Tipper, Pu Thangchhuaka (56yrs) @ Zoluta @ Mohamad Buizu Islam of Ramthar Veng, Aizawl.

  The abductors were reportedly speaking in Bru and Bengali languages and all of them were dressed in camouflage uniforms. One of the released hostages namely Mangala Basu, teacher (SSA), Rajiv Nagar narrated that due to non compliance/payment of demand money i.e. extortion money by BRTF such operation of abduction was carried out by the abductors.

Mizoram Police team under the supervision of Commandant, 5th IR, SP Mamit and SDPO West Phaileng immediately proceeded to the place of occurrence to take stock of the situation.

The abductors were not making any ransom demand****and massive combing operation along Indo-Bangla border is being launched by Mizoram Police for securing the safe release of the two hostages. In this connection Criminal Case i.e. **West Phaileng****PS C/No. 3/15 Dt. 2/2/2015 u/s 364 ‘A’/34 IPC r/w 25(1)(A) Arms Act** has been registered. One local collaborator of the abductors namely Rasmani Ushoy (44 yrs) of Tuipuibari, Mamit District has already been arrested by Mizoram Police.

  As per intelligence input, the abducted persons namely (1) Shri Hokum Singh (51 yrs.) Overseer (JE) and driver Thangchhuaka (56 yrs.)@ Mohamad Buizu Islam are reportedly being kept at Korolichhera jhum hut which is located at about 2 Kms south-west of Tarungpara village (near Zopui), Rangamati District, Bangladesh.

  On 4.2.2015 @ 3:47 pm abducted Shri Hokum Singh was allowed to make a call to Shri Ashok Kumar, Officer Commanding, 115 RCC, Silchar who is presently camping at West Phaileng. Shri Hokum Singh reportedly informed Shri Ashok Kumar that he was fine and need not to worry about him and ransom demand if any, may be intimated to BRTF authority in the near future. Again, Shri Hokum Singh called Shri Ashok Kumar on 5.2.2015 @ 9:50 a.m informing him that he was fine and need not to worry about him. Similarly, driver Thangchhuaka @ Mohamad Buizu Islam also called his youngest son Lalremtluanga of Ramthar on 4.2.2015 @ 5:18 p.m telling him that he was fine and properly taken care by the abductors. Again, Shri Thangchhuaka @ Mohamad Buizu Islam called his youngest son Lalremtluanga on 5.2.2015 @ 10:10 a.m reminding him that he was fine and need not to worry about him.

One collaborator of abductors named Rasmani Ushoy (44 yrs.) of Tuipuibari was arrested by Mizoram Police on 4.2.2015 and he had been remanded into Police Custody for further interrogation.

  On 5.2.2015 @ 4:40 PM, one of the kidnappers called Shri Ashok Kumar, Officer Commanding, 115 RCC Silchar who is presently camping at West Phaileng informing him that they had kidnapped BRTF employees since BRTF Authority failed to comply with their demand. Shri Ashok Kumar simply replied that they had not received any kind of such Extortion/demand letter from them and informed him that he would enquire the matter. On 6.2.2015 @ 10:38 AM the same person called Shri Ashok Kumar telling him that BRTF Authority had to pay Rs. 15/- lakhs for securing the release of the 2 (two) hostages. Again, on 6.2.2015 @ 3:15 pm, the same person called Shri Ashok Kumar telling him that BRTF Authority had to pay atleast Rs. 5/- lakhs, 10(ten) lady wrist watches and 10(ten) Mobile Phones on or before 9.2.2015 for securing the release of 2(two) hostages.

  Meanwhile, confirmed information indicated that the kidnappers have been instructed by Higher Authority of NLFT to release the hostages unconditionally and it can be assumed that the kidnappers are under high pressure at this juncture.

  On 7.2.2015 @ 3:00 PM, due to the initiative of Mizoram Police, one of the two hostages namely, Thangchhuaka (56 yrs) @ Mohamad Buizu Islam was released unconditionally by the abductors, i.e. NLFT and BDFM after he was held captive inside Bangladesh for 6 (six) days. He was escorted from Old Zopui, Bangladesh by one local guide upto Udolsury (Sadapara) village near Indo-Bangla border and reached Udolsury @ about 6:00 PM on 6.2.2015. After spending one night at Udolsury village, he was escorted upto Amchurimukh BSF BOP by one villager of Udolsury. He was received at Amchurimukh BSF BOP by a team of Mizoram Police led by Pu Lalhuliana Fanai, CO, 5thIR Bn. and Pu C. Lalnunmawia, SP, Mamit on 9:00 AM. He is being brought to West Phaileng for medical examination by Medical Officer of West Phaileng PHC. He was expected to reach Aizawl on the night of 7.2.2015 after necessary debriefing at West Phaileng PS.

  However, one of the hostages namely, Shri. Hokum Singh (51 yrs) was still under the captivity of the abductors. He was kept at Old Zopui area, Rangamati District, Bangladesh.

  On 9.2.2015 @ 9:00 AM, due to the initiative of Mizoram Police, Shri. Hokum Singh (51 yrs) was released by the abductors, i.e. NLFT and BDFM after he was held captive inside Bangladesh for 7 (seven) days. He was escorted from Old Zopui, Bangladesh by one local guide and reached Simui stream @ 12:45 PM located at about 4 Kms. from Udolsury (Sadapara) village near Indo-Bangla border. He was escorted from Simui stream by 3 (three) local guides and reached Amchurimukh BSF BOP @ 4:00 PM where he was received by a team of Mizoram Police led by Pu Lalhuliana Fanai, CO, 5thIR Bn. He was brought to West Phaileng for medical examination by Medical Officer, West Phaileng PHC. After necessary debriefing at West Phaileng PS, he was handed over to BRTF authority on 10.2.2015.

 At the same time, Pu Mohamad Buizu Islam @ Zoluta reached Aizawl on 9.2.2015 @ 12:30 PM and was accorded a warm welcome by Ramthar Veng Joint NGOs.