****IV. PROTEST AGAINST EXTENSION OF THE RE-EMPLOYMENT PERIOD OF PI B.SAIRENGPUII AS COMMISSIONER, PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES (PWD) UNDER GOVERNMENT OF MIZORAM****

On 21.1.2016 around 1300 strong students took out a possession within Aizawl City under the aegis of Mizo Students Union (MSU) General Headquarters, Mizoram Blind Society (MBS), Aizawl City College Joint Students' Union (ACCJSU) in protest against extension of the re-employment period of Pi B.Sairengpuii as Commissioner, Persons with Disabilities (PwD) under Government of Mizoram. The students marched from Zarkawt Junction to the office of the Commissioner, Persons with Disabilities, Chaltlang, Aizawl. Leaders of MSU, MBS and ACCJSU delivered speeches during the rally and the agitating students chanted slogans and carried placards against the Government of Mizoram and against Pi B.Sairengpuii. The demonstrators further staged a 'Sit-in demonstration' infront of the office of Commissioner, Persons with Disabilities at Chaltlang, Aizawl demanding removal of Pi B.Sairengpuii before 5:00 PM today. The procession and protest disrupted movement of vehicles along the road leading to Chaltlang. At around 4:00 PM, the agitating students tried to break Police Barricade at infront of the office of Commissioner, (PwD) and the Police were compelled to resort to Lathi charge and Tear Gas as the agitating students started attacking the Police personnel by pelting stone etc. Finally, at around 5:00 PM, all the agitating students withdrawn from the spot of demonstration i.e. infront of Office of Commissioner, PwD, Chaltlang and marched towards Vanapa Hall, Aizawl and they dispersed from Vanapa Hall premises at 6:20 PM. During the clash between the two sides, the following 3 (three) students sustained minor injuries and sent to Civil Hospital, Aizawl and they were discharged after administering medical treatment:-

1) Zosangliana (20 yrs), ITI Veng, Aizawl (broken small finger)

2) R. Vanlalruatfela (20 yrs) Upper Republic (cut on palate)

3) Peter Laltanpuia (20 yrs), Rawpuichhip (cut on head)

Meanwhile, 8 (eight) Police personnel i.e. 4(four) from 5th IR Bn., 3(three) from Aizawl DEF and 1(one) from 3rd Bn. MAP also sustained minor injuries while retaliating to the attack of agitating students. In this regard, Bawngkawn PS Case No 26/16 Dt. 21.1.2016 u/s 143/145/147/149/152/ 353/427 IPC has been registered.