1. On 3.2.2020, 1st Assam Rifles F.Coy 99 BPO Parva conducted patrolling at SiminaSora, one suspected Myanmarese(ALP) namely, Aung Thine s/o Ukyaw Win at Pin Mroung, Arakan District was apprehended and recovered from him of the following suspected explosive substances :

1) Electronic detonator - 100 nos + (10 without cap)

2) Safety fuse  - 76 metres

 Hence, Vasei PS C/No.4/20 at 4.2.2020 u/s 9 B(1)(a)(b) Indian Explosive Act r/w 14 Foreigners Act has been registered.

2. On 15.2.2020 @ 11:00 Pm, based on tip off received from Aizawl based 46th Assam Rifles, a join operation was conducted at Seling Village and during the wake operation two vehicles i.e. Bolero Pick up B/R No.MZ 08 3417 driven by Lalhmangaihtluanga(25) s/o Biakenga of Chhingchhip Mualpui and Eco Van B/R No.MZ 09 3225 driven by R.Lalnunmawia s/o Lalzuia of Tluangvel P/A Chhingchhip were intercepted and when both the vehicle were subjected to thorough search, recovery of Gelatin Explosive (Neo gel) 40 boxes (200X40 =8000 pieces) were recovered from Bolero Pick up B/R No.MZ 08 3417, whereas ordinary detonator 6 boxes (10,000X6=60,000) were recovered from Eco-van B/R No.MZ 09 3225. Both vehicles were heading towards Aizawl from Chhingchhip side. On being reasoned about the transportation of huge quantity of explosive substance, both of the drivers stated that their vehicles were hired by one S.T Lalnunmawia s/o S.T Thangtea(L) of Venghnuai Aizawl and the subjected explosive in question were supposed to be delivered at Khamrang. Further on being contacted, the said ST Lalnunmawia s/o ST Thangtea (L) of Venghnuai Aizawl appeared at Seling and stated that he was owner of M/S 12 - Libra located at VS T/3 20 Venghnuai which deals with supply of Gelatin explosive and the explosive materials in question was ruminant of explosive consignment which he delivered to Bhartia Infra Project LTD engaged in road construction work at Thenzawl and since the explosive van in which the explosive consignment was carried, developed some snag at Chhingchhip. "Thus he hired, the two vehicles so that the explosive materials can be transported to explosive Godown/Magazine located at Khamrang. He also produced photo copy of purported explosive license No.:E/EC/MZ/22/70(E112184) validity 31st March 2023 stating that the original documents were sent to Petroleum and safety organization office, Kolkata for enhancement of the permit. He however failed to delivery voucher of the explosive consignment which according to him was delivered to Bhartia Infra Project LTD camp Thenzawl. Though prima facie it appears that, ST Lalnunmawia s/o ST Thangtea(L) of Venghnuai is authorized to deal in explosive vide the license stated above, however carrying such a huge quantity of explosive in private vehicles that totally mismatches with Tax Invoice is considered quite unsafe, illegal and is tantamount to the condition of section 5 of the Indian Explosive Act. Further the movement of the huge quantity of explosive substance from Thenzawl to Aizawl via Chhingchhip-Seling route is in itself highly suspicious giving rise to reasonable suspicions that the fore mentioned persons are not having the seized explosives in question in their possession for a lawful purpose and pilferage of the explosives is also cannot be ruled out. Hence, Bawngkawn PS C/No.69/20 at 16.2.2020 u/s 9 B(s) Indian Explosive Act has been registered.