****Important points for directional level co-ordination meeting****

****of LIA(Lead Intelligence Agency)****

**1) Trans-border crimes and illegal movement**: a) On 6.6.2011, two employees of ABCI have been abducted by Assam based militant group named UDLA from ABCI camp near Meidum village of Kolasib district. The gang with the abductees left the camp by using the company's vehicle. Hence, Baraibi PS C/No.7/11 dt.6.6.11 u/s 365/386/395/34 IPC r/w 25(1B)(b) Arms Act had been registered.

 The hostages were rescued on 16.6.2011 after a firefight between Mizoram Police Joint Operation Team of CID(SB) and 1st IR Bn. RAF and the armed gang at the outskirt of Banglabasha village of Hailakandi district of Assam. After an encounter which lasted for about 30 minutes, the so called UDLA fled towards the jungle leaving the two hostages behind. The commander of the group, before fleeing shot at the right abdomen of one of the hostages Premlal Dhiman, Project Manager, ABCI causing serious injury and the abductees were rescued safely. Neither the Police nor the armed group sustained any injury as a result of the encounter.

 On 26.10.2012, two of the accused viz. S/S President Doinaram Reang and S/S Pte. Zohmangaiha were arrested and confessed their involvement during interrogation.

b)  On 25.3.2012, 6(six) nos. of ABCI employees were abducted by NLFT militant outfit which is having permanent hideout inside Bangladesh numbering about 20 cadres crossing Indo-Bangladesh border. The incident took place at a small ABCI designated camp called Lamba Sora located in between N.Sachan and Mauzam, Lunglei district and the place of occurrence is not far away from Indo-Bangladesh border. The abductors took the hostages nearby Tarunpara village, Rangamati district, Bangladesh. The motive behind the abduction of the company officials as claimed by NLFT was irregular payment of alleged agreed taxes by the company to the outfit and also the abductors plainly asserted that any attempt to launch rescue operation would invite instant killing of all hostages without hesitation.

The hostages were released on 30.4.2012 after 35 days long captivity inside Bangladesh. The hostages after their release reached BSF camp at Rajiv Nagar(Tuipuibari), Mamit district. Hence, Tlabung PS C/No.3/12 dt. 30.3.2012 u/s 363/395 IPC r/w 25(1B)(a) Arms Act had been registered.

c)  On 25.11.2012 @ 8:00pm, five Borok National Council of Tripura(BNCT) cadres headed by Vanlalliana of Chamdur abducted three Bengali timber traders from Tuipuibari-II(Rajiv Nagar). Two of the abductors were wearing jungle camouflage uniform and armed with carbine while the rest three were in civil dress and carried sticks. The abductors also took away teak royalty documents/permits alongwith cash amounting Rs.30,000/- and left towards Bangladesh border through the jungle. The abductors demanded payment of ransom money of Rs.15 lakhs each for the release of the hostages. Accordingly, W.Phaileng PS C/No.36/12 dt.26.11.12 u/s 364(A)/171/34 IPC r/w 25(1A) Arms Act had been registered. Further, information received stated that the three Bengali Teak (timber) traders abducted by a combined group of NLFT and BNCT on 25.11.2012 from Tuipuibari-II were held at NLFT camp known as “Hnahbok Camp” located inside Kasalong forest west of Zopui village in Sazek hills of Bangladesh. It is learnt that families of the abductees were last contacted on 02.12.2012 through mobile phone by the abductors urging them to immediately pay up their ransom demand of Rs 30 lakhs.

****2) Miscellaneous/ Any other issues**: a) The Hmar People's Convention (Democratic). HPC(D), a Manipur based militant outfit is also a matter of concern since it has indulged in felonious activities such as forced collection of money from village authorities, Government employees and Contractors within their demand area, comprising over 30 villages in the northern part of the state. The HPC(D) issued diktat to boycott the Village Council Election held in February 2012 and as such 15 Village Councils within its demand area dared not conduct VC election. Moreover, the HPC(D) had also dissolved as many as 37 Branches of YMA within its demand area. All these activities had drawn the attention of the Government resorting in the arrest of 3 (three) top leaders viz. H.Zosangbera, Chairman at IGI Airport, New Delhi on 17.7.2012 and two armed wing leaders S/S Army Chief Ropuia and S/S Dy. Army Chief Biaknunga at Silchar Airport on 10.6.2012.**

 On 21.11.2012, S/S Army Chief Ropuia was released on bail on medical ground.

 Another input received indicated that HPC(D) are demanding 50 lakhs from NEEPCO, who are doing Dam construction (Tuirial Hydel Project) located within Hmar dominated area of Mizoram bordering Assam. They had set a deadline till today i.e. 06.12.12 as the last date for payment of their demand. The HPC(D) had pressurized NEEPCO by threatening to bomb outlet/inlet mechanism located inside the canal.

 It was also reported that on 4.12.12 @12:15pm a group of suspected HPC(D) numbering about 10, some of them carrying arms reportedly AK rifle visited Dam site of Tuirial Hydel Project (under construction) under Kolasib District near Assam border about 10 kms from Saipum village. They reportedly called up one engineer known as Ravi informing him that the demand they had made earlier has to be fulfilled within three days. In this connection, enquiry is being conducted by the SDPO, Vairengte to verify the authenticity of the information. It is strongly believed that this information could be related to the input at para 2 above.

b)  The BNA(so called Bru National Army) with a strength of around 20 cadres having two sophisticated weapons may also be worth mentioning that on 15.7.2012, Lalthazuala was arrested at the border of Tripura-Assam on his way to Hmarkhawlian to meet with leaders of HPC(D) to chalk out covert sabotage plan of attack against the State of Mizoram. In this connection, Aizawl PS C/No.322 dt.13.7.2012 u/s 121A/34 IPC had been registered.

3)  **i)** Since the Barak Valley lies far away from Mizoram, there has been nothing to furnish about the security scenario.

**ii)** **Trans border movement of IIGs and arms/ammns. etc on Indo-Bangladesh border**: There has been no recent reports on Trans-border movement of IIGs and arms/ammns. etc on Indo-Bangladesh border.

****iii) Jehadi/Muslim fundamentalist activities**: There has been no report on the activities of Muslim fundamentalist in the State of Mizoram.**