****TERRORISM / COUNTER INSURGENCY IN MIZORAM****

Law and order situation in the State of Mizoram is by and large remained relatively peaceful today. In terms of Insurgency related incidents, Mizoram can undoubtedly be regarded as one of the most peaceful states in India. The 20-year long insurgency in Mizoram (1966-86) led by the Mizo National Front (MNF) was resolved way back in 1986. However, after the end of 20-years insurgency in Mizoram, an armed group of Hmars, i.e. Hmar People’s Convention (HPC) and armed group of Brus (Reang), i.e. Bru National Liberation Front (BNLF), Bru Liberation Front of Mizoram (BLFM) took arm struggle movement in Mizoram undermining the peaceful atmosphere of the state of Mizoram.

To end the Bru militant activities, the Government of Mizoram initiated Peace Talk with leaders of Bru militants; Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between BNLF and Government of Mizoram on 26.4.2005 and 804 strong members of BLFM also surrendered before the Government on 26.10.2006 with their arms and ammunition.

A peace accord was signed way back in 1994 between Government of Mizoram and HPC, However, certain groups of persons who are disgruntled with the accord formed Hmar People’s Convention (Democratic) i.e. HPC (D) in 1996. The HPC(D) continued to carry out their criminal activities like killing of security personnel, abduction, collecting donations, extortion, and intimidation within Mizoram (along Mizoram – Manipur border). They operated from the state of Manipur. However, due to strong counter measure taken by Mizoram Police, most of the top leaders of HPC(D) had already been arrested and are being incarcerated in Central Jail, Aizawl.

On 2.4.2018 @ 4:30 p.m, Government of Mizoram and HPC(D) signed a Memorandum of Settlement (MoS) at the function held at the State Guest House, Aizawl. Shri. Arvind Ray, Chief Secretary of Mizoram and Pu H. Zosangbera, Chairman, HPC(D) signed the MoS on behalf of the State Government and HPC(D) respectively. As many as 5 (five) rounds of official level and 1 (one) political level peace talk has been held between the State Government and HPC(D) since 10th August, 2016. The signing of MoS will bring to an end, the over two-decades armed conflict of the HPC(D). The Arms Laying Ceremony of HPC(D) is scheduled to be held at CTI, Sesawng on 12th April, 2018. In this ceremony, around 104 cadres and 12 Council members are expected to come to over ground and to enjoy normal life.

In view of the attack of café in Dhaka, Bangladesh (i.e. 1st July, 2016) by seven ISIS terrorists and also due to reported link of ISIS with Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen-Bangladesh (JMB) and Islamic Chhatra Shivir (ICS), the state of Mizoram has become vulnerable from the threat of the affiliates of ISIS and AQIS operating from Bangladesh. Accordingly, all concerned Police Stations, Police Outposts; Border Outposts have been alerted to thwart any possible activity of Muslim radicals on the soil of Mizoram.

 Presently, the Peoples' Liberation Army (PLA) and Zomi Revolutionary Army (ZRA) (Manipur based insurgent groups) are having permanent camp inside Myanmar adjacent to Mizoram. This matter needs to be discussed seriously with Myanmar government since the PLA and ZRA are imparting training to various underground outfit of the Northeast. It has also been ascertained that different Northeast insurgent groups like United National Liberation Front(UNLF), National Democratic Front of Bodo Land(NDFB), United Liberation Front of Assam(ULFA) and National Liberation Front of Tripura(NLFT) etc occasionally have meetings inside Myanmar and used Mizoram as a conduit for illegal movements and activities. Alertness has been maintained regarding this matter.