****BORDER ISSUES WITH ASSAM****

Mizoram is having approximately 404 kms. and 318 kms. porous international borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh respectively. It has boundary of 123 kms with Assam, 66 Kms with Tripura and 95 Kms with Manipur. Security Border of Mizoram is entrusted mainly with Mizoram Police with sister agencies namely, Assam Rifles, Border Security Force and Central Reserve Police Force

**Historical Background**

 On 6th November 1849 Mizo Chief Ngura of Sentlang attacked SEIPUIA, (also known as Kooki Raja) Village, which was located at about 9/10 miles south of Silchar. Retaliatory expedition, under Captain Lister was launched against Ngura village Sentlang in Jan 1850. A meeting was arranged on 16-18 December, 1850 between Capt. Lister and Suakpuilala, one of the most influential Mizo Chief. The British proclaim their claim over territory which the Mizos refused to accept. Sa ui tan ( Settlement) ceremony was performed between the British and the Mizos (Lushai) and a boundary line was drawn, which, as described by Col. Elles, Assistant Quarter Master General in his book “Military Report on the Chin-Lushai Country” (pp.27) are as follows:

"The Boundary line extended from a few miles above Lakhipur on the Barak to the northern limits of Hill Tiporrah, passing through the southern extremity of Chuttachurra Range, and the Lushai had been warned that any depredation committed on the British side of this line would be seriously punished."

The Lushais respected this settlement (Sa ui tan) amd there was no border trouble for the next 20 years. The British, on seeing the potential for cultivation of tea in the areas, gradually encroached into Lushai Territory. This was resented by the Lushais who made formal protest to the British in 1865. This fact was recorded by Mr. Mackenzie as follows: Vanpuilala’s (one the Lushai Chiefs) messengers expressed great dread of the advance of the tea gardens up the Sonai, which Capt. Steward endeavoured to allay by showing how advantageous to the Hill tribes the vicinity of a garden would be.” The attitude of Capt. Steward annoyed the Lushais who began to realise the imperialistic design of the British and as a result there was great tension between the British and the Lushais. Owing to the ensuing intense and continual tension in the border the British drew a line of control in 1867. A chain of Military outposts was established along the line at Mynadhar, Monierkhal, Nudigram, Newarband, Jalnachurra and chhuttachura. The line was also known as Ronphari which means "battle or patrol line."In 1870 the British prohibited all their subjects, including the natives, from crossing this newline of control. In 1870-71 Mr. Edgar tried to make a new boundary line which was not accepted by the Lushai chiefs. In 1871, a series of successful concerted raids were launched by the Lushais One British citizen James Winchester was also killed and his daughter Merry Winchester was taken captive by the Lushais. The British took retaliatory measures by sending expeditionary forces into Lushai Hills and had to be contented to limit their actual line of control on the line drawn in 1867. ln 1873 the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Was made and under the Regulation the Cachar Inner Line was notified in 1875 following more or less the line drawn in 1867 or the Ronphari. The British subjects were not allowed to go beyond this line without written permission of the District Officer of Cachar. This line was established as the boundary between the Lushai Territory and the Cachar District of British India.

A map showing the provincial boundary of the Lushai Hills and Cachar was published by Col. H.R. Thullier, Surveyor General of India in 1893. To this day, the Mizos regard this line as the traditional boundary between the Lushai Hills and Cachar. The Govt. of Assam also recognised this line as the southern boundary of Cachar District, as indicated below –

"The Southern boundary of the Cachar District was defined and gazetted under the Inner Line Regulation in August, 1875, and is now marked by 46 boundary pillars, which are inspected nearly every year and kept in good order. A pass is granted to persons allowed to cross the Inner Line at a fee of 8 Annas for each pass.” (Para 86 of Assam Government Note on the Lushais, 1873 to 1889).

The extension of British occupation upto the line of 1867 or Inner Line of 1875 had driven away many Mizos settlers from their land north of the Inner Line. The Inner Line of 1875 was officially accepted as the southern boundary of Cachar District of British India by the British India Government (Foreign Department) Notification No. 229-P dated 20th August, 1875 read with the appendix to Assam Forest Manual, 1897). A portion of land measuring about 509 Sq. miIes of the Lushai country and beyond the southern boundary of Cachar District of British India was declared as Reserved Forest by the Assam Government in the Assam Gazette Notification No. 5 dated 17. 10. 1878 (Assam Gazette 19. 1O. 1878) Without any consultation or knowledge of the Lushai Chiefs. act of force majeure. It **Therefore, the creation of the Inner Line Reserved Forest under the Indian Forest Act of 1878 by the British Government inside the Lushai Country, and beyond the British boundary was an exercise of extra-territorial jurisdiction and invalid in the eye of law.** Moreover, the so Called inner Line Reserved Forest under the Assam Gazette Notification quoted above was admitted to be Mizoram or Lushai Territory in Assam Forest Manual (Vide Appendix to Assam Forest Manual 1897, pp. 57). It may further be mentioned that the southern boundary of Cachar in British India was clearly demarcated and defined and marked with 46 boundary pillars and this line is same as the Inner Line of 1875, excepting this line or boundary there has never been any other boundary demarcation between Mizoram (The Lushai Territory) and Cachar District.

As mentioned earlier several border clashes took place and raids were conducted by Lushai chiefs where even one Englishman was killed and his daughter taken captive. The British also had to send expeditionary forces several times to retaliate and rescue the English girl. Ultimately in equipped and poor Mizo tribals could not stand against the might of the British Empire and their land was forcibly occupied in 1890 and formally annexed in 1895 by the British.

**ANNEXATION OF MIZORAM**

Mizoram (then known as the Lushai territory) formally became part of British India on 6. 9. 1895 under Proclamation No. 1698-E, made by the Governor General in Council (Gazette of India 7. 9. 1895) and they made boundary adjustment in 1904 to define the territorial jurisdictions of the two British District Officers of Cachar and Lushai Hills. Since the Lushais had been already subdued, the British Government drew the boundaries to suit their administrative convenience. They also intentionally made arrangement for the settlement of outsiders on the flat lands inside the Lushai Territory, as can be seen below –

“Mr. Fuller thinks it desirable to keep (flat lands ) Within the boundaries of Cachar area which will be colonized by settlers from the district, and not by Lushais.”(Extract from Assam Chief Commissioner’s letter No. 589 Foreign 162P dated Shillong the 14th April 1903). However, this line cannot be identified properly except on map as no actual ground demarcation has been made with erection of boundary pillars. The boundary drawn so arbitrarily without the knowledge of the Mizo people and without any ground demarcation or boundary pillars has been creating problems rather than solving them. **The present so-called boundary line as shown in the Survey of India Map was made in 1904, altered in 1912 and 1930 without consultation and approval of the Mizos.******It is imaginary line pushed farther and farther south of the 1875 Inner Line depriving the Mizos of the gentle slopes and flat lands for the convenience of outside settlers brought by the British.

 **For the people of Mizoram, the only known and established northern boundary is the Inner Line of 1875**, which was drawn before the Imperial British occupied the land of the Mizos and which consided with the declared southern boundary of the Cachar District of Assam. This is also the boundary recognised by and in actual practice both by the people residing in border areas and even by the Assam Government.

There are three points which have been regarded as the boundary points between Cachar and Mizo Hills in practice. These are Kukichera on the Dhaleswari river, Duarband on the old Silchar- Aizawl road and Baga Bazar (Banga Bazar) on the present Silchar-Aizawl road (NH-54). Government servants on transit were regarded to have passed the boundary between Cachar District and Mizo Hills at these points (Vide Assam Fundamental Rule 106 read with Subsidiary Rule, 137). A Mizo Officer who was a Government servant at that time (now retired) clearly mentioned about this).

Therefore, considering all the historical background as well as facts and circumstances of the recent past that are still related amongst the Mizos, it is not possible for the Mizos to accept the imaginary lines, which was drawn without their knowledge or consultation in 1933.

**Current border dispute with Assam**

The three South Assam districts of Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj share border with Mizoram’s Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972, when it became a separate Union Territory. In 1987, it became a full-fledged state.While the two states have sparred over the border in the past, the stand-offs have been relatively non-violent and low-key compared to Assam’s dispute with its other neighbours – Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh – on the same matter.

On February 27, the Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Mizoram’s most powerful student organisation, built a wooden rest house somewhere in the Inner Line Permit Reserved Forest( 509 Sq Kms), large parts of which run along the Assam-Mizoram border. The spartan structure was meant to serve as a resting place for farmers who worked in the many paddy fields in the area.

Later that evening, however, a joint team of the Assam police and the state’s Forest Department demolished the structure, contending that it was built on Assam’s territory and the construction amounted to encroachment.

But the construction and subsequent demolition of the rest house has led to an escalation of tensions in the area since then, with Mizo activists and journalists accusing the Assam administration of high-handedness and use of excessive force.

On 8.3.2018 members of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) left Aizawl for Zophai near Bairabi, Kolasib District with an intention to reconstruct Zofate Chawlhbuk (Shed) at the disputed site along Mizoram-Assam border. At around 11:45 am, a minor scuffle broke out between the Student union and Assam Police when some members of the student union tried to unload their building materials from the vehicle. The Assam Police had even resorted to Lathi-charge as a result of which around 15 (fifteen) MZP members reportedly sustained minor injuries.

  On****10.3.2018,a scuffle broke out again between Assam Police and members of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) when around 100 (hundred) strong MZP members proceeded to the disputed site at Zophai with their building materials to reconstruct ‘Zofate Chawlhbuk’. The students were intercepted by Assam Police before they reached the disputed site and they subsequently used force to disperse them. It has been reported that the Assam Police initially used Lathi but later on resorted to firing and around 8 (eight) shots were reportedly fired as a result of which one MZP member reportedly sustained gunshot injury on his right ankle and around 49 (forty nine) others sustained injuries on their persons. It was also reported that 8 (eight) media persons also sustained injuries. The Assam Police burnt down the temporary shed constructed by the MZP near the disputed site and the following vehicles belonging to MZP members were also ransacked by Assam Police :-****(1) Sumo - 1 no. (2) Taxi -1 no. (3) Car (Nano) - 1 no. (4) M/Cycles -3 nos.****At least 20 people were reportedly injured on Saturday.

Meanwhile, though the Mizoram state Government has appealed to the Mizo Zirlai Pawl(MZP) to abandon its plans to reconstruct the rest house,but the MZP remains set on it. They also collected donation for recurring damages caused to the properties of MZP by Assam Police as the Government was unable to pay compensation for them. As of now, they have strongly urged the state Government to construct ‘Zofate Chawlhbuk’ at Zophai failing which they would take every possible steps for the reconstruction.