**_VERIFICATION REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE RECEIVED FROM SISTER AGENCY_**

 The escalating resistance put up against the military regime by Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH) and Civil Disobedience Movement (CDM) definitely had an impact and permeate the Indo Myanmar boundary, which resulted in influx of a considerable number of refugees arriving and taking shelter in Mizoram and Manipur. Input received stated that CRPH and CDM supporters are adamant and determined to continue their resistance which had shown a new level including armed resistance for their personel defence. CRPH and CDM had been steadfast in collecting arms and ammunitions as much as possible from the neighbouring countries particularly from the state of Mizoram and Manipur. Besides, they are intending to impart wide scale training on handling of arms and weaponry to its youth supporters. However, the training is yet to commenced due to non availaibility of suitable training ground. To reinforce and strengthen their resistance in a more effective manner against the military regime, Civil Security Defence (CSD), Tahan Civil Defence Force (TCDF) and Kalay Civil Army (KCA) are working together and a larger group Upper Chindwin Peoples Defence Force (UCPDF) was also formed for effective counter measures against the Military regime.

 Meanwhile, it is pertinent to mention that despite the arrival and presence of refugees in Mizoram, the state Government in compliance to the direction of Ministry of Home Affairs in respect of Myanmarese refugees, had not endorsed and facilitated the arrival of Myanmar refugees. However, civil society organisations and NGOs’cannot let down these Myanmarese refugees particularly from the Chin/Sagaing Region who shared close ethnicity and cultural affinity with the Mizos. Further, the assistance provided by these NGOs’ confined solely upon arrival of these asylum seekers within the territory of India.

  To enhance and further intensify the efforts of CRPH and CDM in their endeavour against the military regime as well as to restore democracy, several ousted NLD MPs’ have entered and stationed within India via Mizoram and Manipur. These ousted legislators have been approaching several civil societies and NGOs’ and sought their assistance in various ways. Input received also stated that at present, 6 (six) NLD MPs’ are stationed in Manipur and another 19 (nineteen) NLD MPs’ are currently stationed in Mizoram.