****REPORT IN CONNECTION WITH CELEBRATION OF REPUBLIC DAY, 2019 IN MIZORAM AND THE BOYCOTT CALL OF THE NGOCC IN PROTEST AGAINST THE CAB,2016:****

1. On 21.01.2019 NGO Coordination Committee (NGOCC), comprising of Central YMA (CYMA), Mizoram Upa Pawl (MUP), Mizo Hmeichhe Insuihkhawm Pawl (MHIP), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) and Mizo Students’ Union (MSU) held a meeting on 21.01.2019 @ 3:00 p.m at CYMA Office in which they decided to boycott the celebration of Republic Day, i.e. 26.01.2019 (Saturday) throughout the State in protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 which was recently passed in the Lok Sabha. Information further indicated that the NGOCC had the intention of picketing all dignitaries, invitees, participants, etc. from entering the venue, i.e. A.R. Lammual, for the State celebratory function which was to be held @ 8:00a.m on 26.01.2019. Requests were been made by officials of Special Branch on 22.01.2019 to CYMA and MZP to refrain from physical picketing of those who have come to attend the celebratory function but to no avail.

2.  In this connection, CYMA also issued a notification on 22.01.2019 to all YMA Branches for the boycott of the celebratory function with an instruction to Aizawl City YMA Branches to come for picketing duty at A.R. Lammual entry gates on 26.01.2019 from 6:00 a.m onwards to prevent anyone from entering the venue.

3.  Meanwhile, on 23.01.2019 Pu Lalchamliana, Hon’ble Home Minister called a meeting with leaders of all NGOCC @ 2:30 p.m at Secretariat Conference Hall in which Principal Secretary (Home), IGP(L&amp;O), DC Aizawl, SP Aizawl and other officials were present. The meeting discussed the intended boycott and picketing to prevent officials and public from attending the celebration of Republic Day, 2019 by the NGOCC. The Hon’ble Home Minister asked leaders of the NGOCC not to go ahead with their intended boycotting of Republic Day, 2019 celebration as the Republic Day is a sacred day not only for the Government, but also for the entire citizens and that the State Government is bound to go ahead with the celebrations. Consequently, on the same day, the NGOCC held a meeting @ 4:00 p.m at Central YMA Office and resolved to go ahead with boycotting and picketing of the celebration function of Republic Day.

4. A meeting with Mizoram Kohhran Hruaitute Committee (MKHC) was convened by Pu Lalchamliana, Hon‘ble Home Minister at his office chamber the next day, i.e. 24.01.2019 @ 11:00 a.m which was attended by leaders of MKHC, Principal Secretary (Home), IGP(L&amp;O), DIG (NR) and DIG (CID). The Hon’ble Home Minister requested MKHC leaders to mediate with NGOCC leaders to persuade them not to boycott celebrations of Republic Day, 2019. As an outcome of the meeting, MKHC scheduled a meeting with NGOCC leaders at CYMA Hall the same evening @ 7:00 p.m.

5. On the same day, i.e. 24.01.2019, Pu L.H. Shanliana, IPS, IGP (Intel and L&amp;O)also convened a meeting with leaders of MZP Gen. Hqrs. at his office chamber, PHQ @ 1:00 p.m which was attended by top Police officials and 3 (three) MZP leaders headed by B. Vanlaltana, Vice President, MZP Gen. Hqrs. The meeting held an open discussion about the intended boycott and picketing of the coming Republic Day celebration, 2019 by NGOCC and Pu L.H. Shanliana strongly asked the MZP leaders to refrain from going to the extent of picketing the celebratory function of Republic Day, 2019. The meeting concluded with the assurance by the MZP leaders to convey the message before the meeting of NGOCC at the earliest.

6. Meeting between MKHC headed by Rev. R. Lalhmingthanga, Chairman and NGOCC held on 24.01.2019 @ 7:00 p.m at CYMA Office, was attended only by CYMA leaders from NGOCC while MUP, MHIP, MZP and MSU abstained from attending the meeting. Since only one organisation from NGOCC, i.e. CYMA headed by their President, Pu Vanlalruata, attended the meeting, the meeting failed to have a positive outcome.

7.  Since the issue still remained unresolved till the evening of 24.01.2019, Pu Zoramthanga, Hon’ble Chief Minister, called a meeting between the Government and all Office Bearers of the member organisations of NGOCC on25.01.2019 @ 10:30 a.m at Secretariat Conference Hall to have a dialogue so that the matter could be resolved.
8.  A meeting between the Government and NGOCC was held on 25.01.2019 @ 10:30 a.m at Secretariat Conference Hall which was chaired by Pu Zoramthanga, Hon’ble Chief Minister and attended by Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Hon’ble Speaker; Pu Lalchamliana, Hon’ble Home Minister; Pu Lalruatkima, Hon’ble MOS Rural Development Department; Pu Lalchhandama Ralte, Hon’ble MOS School Education Department; Pu T.J. Lalnuntluanga, Hon’ble MOS Law &amp; Judicial Department; Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Hon’ble MOS Sports Department; Principal Secretary (Home), DGP (M) and senior officials from Civil and Police administration and 21 (twenty one) leaders of the NGOCC headed by Pu Vanlalruata, Chairman, NGOCC and President, CYMA.
 The meeting had a comprehensive discussion on the intended boycott and picketing of Republic Day celebration, 2019 by NGOCC. The Hon’ble Chief Minister explained the importance and sanctity of the Republic Day and that all citizens should join in celebrations. He also explained that his party and his Government also opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 and had taken up the issue in his meeting with the Hon’ble Prime Minister and the Hon’ble Union Home Minister during his visit to Delhi the previous week. Therefore, they should not go ahead with the boycott call and their intention to prevent people from going to the celebrations. He informed that the State Government must celebrate the Republic Day. The NGOCC expressed desire to have closed consultation amongst themselves and they were given a separate hall for discussions.

9. After long closed-door discussion among themselves, the NGOCC returned with their decisions that they will go ahead with the boycott call and picketing, but will not cause hindrance to the Hon’ble Governor, the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Hon’ble Speaker, Hon’ble Deputy Speaker, the Ministers and officials of Secretary level and above, awardees, parade and band parties. They also assured that their protests shall be peaceful and their volunteers will try to convince people not to attend the Republic Day celebration and to support their boycott call. The Hon’ble Chief Minister informed them there and then that his party and his Government also opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, therefore they are on the same side, but the Republic Day function should go ahead peacefully, he agreed to the proposals of NGOCC, and also asked that at District Hqrs., Flag hoisting should be done at DC Office and NGOCC members in the district should not disturb. With this the meeting was concluded.

10. On the morning of 26.01.2019, Republic Day celebration was held as scheduled and the Hon’ble Governor of Mizoram, Pu Kummanam Rajasekharan unfurled the National Flag at 8:00 a.m. The ceremonial parade concluded without any untoward incident despite the strong demonstration by the NGOCC. Dignitaries, invitees etc. who were listed to attend the function by the meeting between the Hon’ble Chief Minister and NGOCC attended the programme. The protestors gathered outside the 3 (three) entry gates of A.R.Lammual preventing officials and others not included in the discussion between the Government and NGOCC held the previous day, i.e. 25.01.2019 from entering the venue.

 At other places in Mizoram, Republic Day celebrations were held peacefully with no untoward incident reported.