****PARA-WISE COMMENTS ON JUDGEMENT ORDER****

**PARA - 1 :** The prosecution story of the case in brief is that on 12.3.2012, an FIR was lodged by SI Rokima Chhangte S/o C. Vanlaldika of Ramthar Veng, Aizawl with the O/C, Aizawl PS stating that on 12.3.2012 at 7:00 am, in pursuance of their information joint operation with BSF, Aizawl Sector Staff, CID(SB) and DSB, Aizawl was held and they apprehended Vanlalpeka (27) S/o H.Linga of Tuithiang Veng, Aizawl and seized two firearms i.e. 1 no. of 9mm Pistol (fabrique nationale) B/R. No. W9A143 and 1 no. of .38 Revolver (Smith &amp; Wesson) B/R No. 896299 from the residence of S. Noel Lalrintluanga. In this regard, he requested for necessary action. Hence, Aizawl PS C/No. 107 dt. 12.3.2012 u/s 25(1A)(1AA)/25(1B)(A) Arms Act was registered and duly investigated into.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 1 :**

Information from sources (a joint operation team of BSF, Aizawl Sector and staffs of DSB, Aizawl) was received by CID(SB) on Dt. 11.3.2012. The said information contained that some unidentified persons were illegally possessing and trying to sell some unidentified weapons/firearms and that two BFS’s sources were already engaged to snare the illegal possessor for apprehension and seizure. It may be noted that the said party (BSF and DSB) further requested CID(SB) to join the operation party which was accepted by the latter after the matter was thoroughly discussed by senior officers of CID(SB).

A joint operation party was then formed on the same day and as engagement with the illegal possessor was already made by BSF sources, no new strategy was planned. On the same day, the joint operation team were trying to locate and apprehend the illegal possessor but to no success. On the next day i.e. dt. 12.3.2012, the operation was continued since morning time. On the said day, the mentioned two civilian sources were trying to lure out the illegal possessor which was identified as Peka of unknown residence, the sources disguise themselves as an Arms buyer who are looking for arms to buy. They were also secretly followed and watched by the operation team. As the suspect (illegal possessor) was a very clever fellow, he kept on changing places where he and the sources will meet to discuss business. From the sources it was also known that the suspect’s was called Peka but by that time his residence was not yet known. As the suspect often suddenly switching places where he will meet the sources, the joint operation party failed to locate/intervene while the sources meet the suspect but the place where the suspect took the sources was later on revealed by the sources through phone call. The sources also said that they have seen the arms which the suspect person tried to sell and also that they examine it thoroughly. They also stated that the arms were reportedly kept inside the shop where they suspect brought them as they saw him again (after the meeting) going out from the shop empty handed. On receiving the said information, the joint operation team immediately proceeded towards the said shop which is located at Ramhlun road, Chanmari. On reaching the shop, the co-owner of the shop Mr. Eddie told the operation team that the suspect had left the shop a few minutes then. The owner of the shop Mr. Noela who is also an older brother of Mr. Eddiea had also come in after awhile and when the two brothers were questioned they said that one of their distant friends came to the shop that day and that one of them had kept his bag at one corner of the shop. On hearing the information, the operation team called on two civilian witnesses Pu Lalsawmkima of Chanmari and Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari and in their presence Mr. Eddie-a, took out the bag from one corner of the shop as demanded. When he opened the bag two small arms (9mm pistol and .38 Revolver) were found inside the bag. The recovered articles were seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. At the time of making seizure, statements of witnesses, accused and seizing officer were recorded. The statement of Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a were also recorded. The brother claimed that they did not know the content of the bag and that they were not their property. They further mentioned that they would be able to help the operation party in arresting the real owner of the bag by insisting him (the owner of the bag) to come to their shop to take his bag. Since the information obtained by the operation party also confirmed that the brothers were not the owner of the arms and that they were not the one who was selling the arms, attempt was continued to be made to lure the suspect into the shop. Mr. Noela called the owner and demanded him to take away his bag from their shop. Soon after, the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner was asked to take out his bag from the place where he hid it. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he had tried to sell earlier that day. The owner of the bag (the accused) also admitted that the bag and its content were his property and that he was the one who kept/hid the bag inside the shop. Upon hearing the accused confession, the accused was apprehended. The accused and the seized articles were then brought to Aizawl P/S and handed them over to O/C of Aizawl P/S along with a written FIR. The accused was also formally arrested by the case I/O at the P/S.

The accused Vanlalpeka of Tuithiang Veng was at first apprehended at the place of occurrence and he was later formally arrested by the case I/O when he was produced at the P/S. All the seized articles were also brought and produced to the P/S along with the accused.

**PARA****– 2 :** During the course of investigation, the accused Vanlalpeka was arrested and informing his ground of arrest also seized 1 no. of 9mm Pistol (fabrique nationale) B/R. No. W9A143 and 1 no. of .38 Revolver (Smith &amp; Wesson) B/R No. 896299 and all available witnesses were examined. The property was seized in presence of reliable witnesses and their statements were recorded. The said seized items were also forwarded to Forensic Science laboratory to prove that the firearms were genuine, serviceable etc. and the result came back positive. The accused was thereof kept at PS lock up for further interrogation. A prayer for 72 hrs remand into police custody was sent to court and 48 hrs remand was allowed. During interrogation, he admitted his guilt and confessed that he did it for his personal gain. Prayer for prosecution sanction was accorded by the honourable magistrate. However, his counter-partner Liankhuma of Myanmar who he stated as the owner of the seized firearms could not be found after giving several efforts to locate him. From the above facts and circumstances, a prima facie case u/s 25(1A)(1AA)/25(1B)(A) Arms Act was found well established against the accused Vanlalpeka and charge sheet was submitted accordingly.

**COMMENTS ON PARA - 2 :**

When the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner was asked to take out his bag from the place where he hid it. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he had tried to sell earlier that day. The owner of the bag (the accused) also admitted that the bag and its content were his property and that he was the one who kept/hid the bag inside the shop. Upon hearing the accused confession, the accused was apprehended. The accused and the seized articles were then brought to Aizawl P/S and handed them over to O/C of Aizawl P/S along with a written FIR. Miscellaneous case dairy with seizure memo, statement of seizure witnesses as well as the statement of Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a were handed also handed over to the case I/O. The accused was also formally arrested by the case I/O at the P/S.

**PARA****– 3 :** The defence case was that the accused was innocent.

**COMMENTS ON PARA - 3 :**

 It was certain that the accused was the owner of the arms and that he was the one who put them inside the bag which he hid in one corner of Mr. Noela’s shop. Had he not been the owner of the bag, he would not have come to the shop to collect his property when Mr. Noel-a asked him through phone call to come to their shop to take away his bag. Moreover, the accused was plainly asked to take out the bag he hid from where he hide i.e. without telling or giving him any hint where the bag was, he immediately walked to one corner of the house and took out the bag. It is very clear that had he himself not hide the bag, he would not have known where the bag was.

**PARA****– 4:** During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 5 witnesses.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 4 :**No Comment.

**PARA****– 5 :** PW-1 Lalsawmkima of Chanmari stated that on 12.3.2012 the police invited him as he was the Assistant Secretary of YMA, Chanmari Branch to witnesses recovery and seizure of some suspected illicit article. Accordingly, they proceeded towards Mag. C Agency at Chanmari. When they reached, the police searched within the store. In the meantime the police asked to the shopkeeper namely Pu Noel-a whether the accused put two pistols within his shop and Pu Noel-a took out one .38 revolver and 9mm pistol from the rack inside his store and he stated that that the said revolver and pistol belonged to the accused Vanlalpeka. He further stated that the accused took in the store the day before. Thereafter, the shop keeper Pu Noel-a contacted the accused through telephone. After sometime, the accused appeared and tried to take out his .38 revolver and 9mm pistol. So the police arrested him. The accused also admitted that the said revolver and 9mm pistol were belonged to him. So police seized revolver and 9mm pistol in his presence and he also stood as one of witnesses. He put his signature on the body of the seizure memo. Exbt. P-1 was the seizure memo and Exbt. P-1(a) was his signature. Exbt. M-1 was the seized revolver and Exbt. M-2 was 9mm pistol.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 5 :**

When the joint operation team reached the shop of Mr. Noel-a of Chanmari, the co-owner of the shop Mr. Eddie-a who is the younger brother of Mr. Noel-a told that the person whom the operation party wanted to see (the suspect) had left the shop a few minutes before the operation team arrived. The owner of the shop Mr. Noela also came inside the shop after awhile and when the two brothers were questioned they said that one of their distant friends came to the shop that day and that one of them had kept his back at one corner of the shop. On hearing the information, the operation team called on two civilian witnesses who turn-up at the shop namely Pu Lalsawmkima of Chanmari and Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari and in their presence Mr. Eddie-a, took out the bag from one corner of the shop as demanded. When he opened the bag two small arms were found inside the bag. The recovered articles were seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. At the time of seizing, witnesses’s statement, accused statement and seizing officer’s statement were also recorded. Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a statements were also recorded. The brother claimed that they did not know the content of the bag and that they were not their property. They further mentioned that they will be able to help the operation party to arrest the real owner of the bag by insisting him (the owner of the bag) to come to their shop to take his bag. Since operation party’s information also confirmed that the brothers are not the owner of the arms and that they are not the one who was selling the arms, an immediate attempt to lure the suspect in the shop itself was again continued. Mr. Noel-a called the owner and demanded him to take away his bag from their shop. Soon after, the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner then took out his bag from the place he hid it when asked. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he tried to sell earlier that day. The owner of the bag (the accused) also admitted that the bag and its content were his property and that he was the one who kept/hid the bag inside the shop. Upon hearing the accused confession, the accused was apprehended.

**PARA****– 6 :** PW-2 Lalrokima Chhangte, CID(SB) identified the accused person. On the second week of March 2012, he received information from reliable source stating that one person kept two prohibited bore pistol and the same was trying to sell within Aizawl city. As per information, they conducted investigation within Aizawl city for searching the said prohibited arms and the accused. On 11.3.2012 they conducted joint operation with the SB and BSF G but they could not find positive result. On the same day as per information received by different unit they learned that the probable name and possible location of the person involving in this illegal possession and on the same day the location, the name of the suspected person was confirmed. It was further confirmed that the suspected person was keeping arms in his possession and the same was also trying to sell within Aizawl city. But they could not know the exact location where the arm was kept. On the following day after going through countless difficulties it was by noon time when the location of suspected person and the place where he kept the arms became secretly known and they proceeded towards the PO i.e. Chanmari Ramhlun Rd. When they reached the shop of Mr. Noel Lalrintluanga, his brother Mr. Eddy and two employees of the said shop were present. After waiting for sometime the shop owner Noel Lalrintluanga returned to the shop and he and Eddy stated that two persons tried to sell the said prohibited arms. But they did not know the name of the owner of the said prohibited arms. They also further stated that the accused and Lalsawmkima kept and hide a small bag inside his shop. Eddy took out small bag and they checked and found one 9mm pistol (made in Belgium) with empty magazine) and .38 Revolver ‘Smith and Wesson’ (made in USA). In the meantime as per advice by him Mr. Noel contacted through telephone to the accused to take out the said arm and thereafter the accused tried to take out the said arm and they apprehended the accused and he seized the two prohibited arms in the present of two civilian witnesses and he prepared seizure memo and he lodged the FIR to the O/C, Aizawl PS. Exbt.P-1 was seizure memo, Exbt. P-1(b) was his signature, Exbt. P-2 was FIR and Exbt. P-2(a) was his signature. Exbt. M-1 was the seized article in respect of .38 Revolver and Exbt. M-2 was the seized article in respect of 9mm pistol. The place where the seized articles were recovered as stated in the FIR and seizure memo was the same building as well as the same floor. They used for residence and as a shop. When the accused tried to take out the said two arms he also claimed ownership and he stated that the said two arms belonged to him.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 6 :**Information from sources (a joint operation team of BSF, Aizawl Sector and staffs of DSB, Aizawl) was received by CID(SB) on Dt. 11.3.2012. The said information contained that some unidentified persons were illegally possessing and trying to sell some unidentified weapons/firearms and that two BFS’s sources were already engaged to snare the illegal possessor for apprehension and seizure. It may be noted that the said party (BSF and DSB) further requested CID(SB) to join the operation party which was accepted by the latter after the matter was thoroughly discussed by senior officers of CID(SB).

A joint operation party was then formed on the same day and as engagement with the illegal possessor was already made by BSF sources, no new strategy was planned. On the same day, the joint operation team were trying to locate and apprehend the illegal possessor but to no success. On the next day i.e. dt. 12.3.2012, the operation was continued since morning time. On the said day, the mentioned two civilian sources were trying to lure out the illegal possessor which was identified as Peka of unknown residence, the sources disguise themselves as an Arms buyer who are looking for arms to buy. They were also secretly followed and watched by the operation team. As the suspect (illegal possessor) was a very clever fellow, he kept on changing places where he and the sources will meet to discuss business. From the sources it was also known that the suspect’s was called Peka but by that time his residence was not yet known. As the suspect often suddenly switching places where he will meet the sources, the joint operation party failed to locate/intervene while the sources meet the suspect but the place where the suspect took the sources was later on revealed by the sources through phone call. The sources also said that they have seen the arms which the suspect person tried to sell and also that they examine it thoroughly. They also stated that the arms were reportedly kept inside the shop where they suspect brought them as they saw him again (after the meeting) going out from the shop empty handed. On receiving the said information, the joint operation team immediately proceeded towards the said shop which is located at Ramhlun road, Chanmari. On reaching the shop, the co-owner of the shop Mr. Eddie told the operation team that the suspect had left the shop a few minutes then. The owner of the shop Mr. Noela who is also an older brother of Mr. Eddiea had also come in after awhile and when the two brothers were questioned they said that one of their distant friends came to the shop that day and that one of them had kept his bag at one corner of the shop. On hearing the information, the operation team called on two civilian witnesses Pu Lalsawmkima of Chanmari and Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari and in their presence Mr. Eddie-a, took out the bag from one corner of the shop as demanded. When he opened the bag two small arms (9mm pistol and .38 Revolver) were found inside the bag. The recovered articles were seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. At the time of making seizure, statements of witnesses, accused and seizing officer were recorded. The statement of Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a were also recorded. The brother claimed that they did not know the content of the bag and that they were not their property. They further mentioned that they would be able to help the operation party in arresting the real owner of the bag by insisting him (the owner of the bag) to come to their shop to take his bag. Since the information obtained by the operation party also confirmed that the brothers were not the owner of the arms and that they were not the one who was selling the arms, attempt was continued to be made to lure the suspect into the shop. Mr. Noela called the owner and demanded him to take away his bag from their shop. Soon after, the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner was asked to take out his bag from the place where he hid it. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he had tried to sell earlier that day. The owner of the bag (the accused) also admitted that the bag and its content were his property and that he was the one who kept/hid the bag inside the shop. Upon hearing the accused confession, the accused was apprehended. The accused and the seized articles were then brought to Aizawl P/S and handed them over to O/C of Aizawl P/S along with a written FIR. The accused was also formally arrested by the case I/O at the P/S.

The accused Vanlalpeka of Tuithiang Veng was at first apprehended at the place of occurrence and he was later formally arrested by the case I/O when he was produced at the P/S. All the seized articles were also brought and produced to the P/S along with the accused.

****PARA – 7 :** PW-3 Jonathan L. Ralte, SI of Police identified the accused and stated that on 12.3.2012 a written FIR was received from SI Lalrokima Chhangte stating that on the same day at around 7:00am in pursuance of their information they conducted joint operation with BSF, Aizawl, CID and DSP, Aizawl. They recovered two firearm i.e. one number of 9mm pistol B/R No. W9A143 and one .38 Revolver B/R No. 896299 from the residence of S.Noel Lalrintluanga. They also apprehended the accused person. The case was registered as Aizawl PS C/No. 107 dt. 12.3.2012 u/s 25(1A)(IAA)/25(1B)(A) Arms Act. The case was endorsed to SI Lalbuatsaiha for further investigation. During his investigation he obtained prosecution sanction from the Dist. Magistrate, Aizawl and he sent the said the two firearm to the FSL for further investigation. He also arrested the accused person. The said two firearms were also already seized by SI Lalrokima. FSL report was also received back by SI Lalbuatsaiha. Unfortunately, SI Lalbuatsaiha was transferred to Darlawn PS and he took up the case by instruction of O/C. From the investigation conducted by SI Lalbuatsaiaha and materials available on record, he found prima facie u/s 25(1A)(IAA)/25(1B)(A) Arms Act against the accused person and he submitted charge sheet accordingly. Exbt. P-3 was charge sheet submitted by him and Exbt. P-3 was his signature.**

**PARA****– 8 :** PW-4 Lalbuatsaiha, SI of Police, identified the accused person. He stated that on 12.3.2012 a written FIR was received from SI Lalrokima Chhangte stating that on the same day at around 7:00am while he was at Aizawl PS. The case was registered as Aizawl PS C/No. 107/12 u/s 25(1A)(IAA)/25(1B)(A) Arms Act against the accused person. Accordingly he arrested the accused person and he recorded his statement. Thereafter, he also packed and sealed the seized article and the seized article was sent to the FSL, Aizawl Mizoram for further examination. Unfortunately, he was transferred to the Darlawn PS. Exbt.P-4 was arrest memo submitted by him and Exbt.P-4(a) was his signature. Exbt.P-5 was forwarding note Exbt.P-5 (a) was his signature.

****PARA****– 9 :** PW-5 R. Sangzuala stated that on 29.3.2012 FSL Mizoram Aizawl received 2 Exbt. For further examination which were packed in 1 card board paper. Accordingly, he examined the said Exbt. Such as one 9 MM Pistol and one .38 Revolver. The weapon 9mm pistol was in working condition. The manufacturer and country of origin was Fabrique condition and the manufacturer and country of the origin is Smith &amp; Wessen, USA. Exbt. P-6 was FSL report and Exbt. P-6(a) was his signature.**

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 7, 8 & 9 :**

As CID(SB) personnel are not empowered to take up cases, this particular case was also taken up by one officer from Aizawl P/S for further investigation and also to conclude the case by submitting charge sheet to the court. There are certain limitations of power for some unit like CID(SB) etc., as in the said cases also, only, the operation, apprehension, seizing, recording statement of accused/seizure witnesses/seizing officer, lodging F.I.R could be carried out, and after the accused and seized articles were handed over to O/C of a P/S, the case was taken up by the concerned P/S staff for further investigation and also to conclude the case. It is not the duty of seizing officer of CID(SB) unit to submit the chargesheet or to further call other witnesses. However, in this particular case, the mentioned shop owners who present at time of seizing Mr. Noela and his brother Mr. Eddie were called to present themselves for questioning/examination several times at CID (SB) office at Bungkawn. On that occasions also, no direct involvement was not seen from the brother’s side, they themselves also accepted to appear before the court to confess the truth as it was (i.e. against the accused Vanlalpeka) if needed. Their statements were also recorded and given to the case I/O for further investigation which are enclosed herewith. The case I/O was also hinted to include the brother as prosecution witnesses.

**PARA – 10 :** ****The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.PC and he was asked the question that from the evidences available on record, on 12.3.2012 exbt.M-1 and M-2 was recovered from the shop of Noel-a which was belonged to him and he put the arms to the shop and what he wanted to say and replied in negative.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 10 :**

At the time and place of seizing, the accused clearly admitted that he was the owner of the arms and that he did not have a licenses and also that he was the one who brought the arms inside the shop and hid it. He also affirmed that he was trying to sell the arms to anyone who wants to buy it. It was known that confession before police even in the presence of civilian witnesses is not acceptable in the court, but the situation and all the chain of events did proves the accused was telling the truth. Beside, the operation party strongly believed that the real owner of the arms and the arms he was selling were apprehended and recovered because the suspect Vanlalpeka was previously trying to sell to the operation party’s sources, he even let the source’s examined the arms.

**PARA****– 11 :**I heard the ld. PP and Addl. PPs who submitted that from the evidences available on record the prosecution proved the guilt of the accused and prayed to convict the accused accordingly.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 11 :**No Comment.

**PARA****– 12 :** I also heard the id. D/L who submitted that exbt.M-1 and 2 were not recovered from the possession of the accused and that from the evidences it was very clear that the exhibits were recovered from the shop of Noel Lalrintluanga but Noel Lalrintluanga was not examined by the prosecution and the prosecution failed to prove the guilt of the accused and prayed to acquit.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 12 :**

****At the time and place of occurrence, though the arms were kept/hid and seized inside Mr. Noela’s shop, it was clear that Mr. Noel-a and his brother Mr, Eddie-a did not actually knew the content of the bag and that the arms were not their property, because if the arms were not the accused property, he will never came to collect the arms from Mr. Noela’s shop when Mr. Noela called him through phone while witnesses’s was also present and insisted him to take away his bag from his shop without telling or hinting him where it was. Then, the accused came into the shop and when plainly asked to take out the bag, he did so without any problems of finding it. Due to the said matter, since no direct involvement was seen from Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a, they were not apprehended at first instance, but they were informed that they must not leave Aizawl and must always be ready to be questioned later on. Their statements were also recorded and given to the case I/O for further investigation. But, after the case was taken up by the case I/O, it was his decision to call on the brother and question them and also to whether include the said brother for prosecution witnesses or not.

**PARA – 13 :** PW-1 Lalsawmkima of Chanmari is the only independent witnesses and from his statement it appears that on 12.3.2012 the police asked the shop keeper Noel-a whether the accused put two pistols in his shop and Noel-a took out one .38 revolver and 9mm pistol from his shop and stated that the two arms were belonged to the accused Vanlalpeka and the accused put the day before. Further it also appears that the shop keeper telephoned the accused and the accused appeared and tried to take out the arms and the Police arrested him and the arms. He identified exhibit P-1 the seizure memo and exbt.M-1 and 2 the seized materials.

**PARA****– 14 :** ****In his cross examination he did not deny the suggestion that he was not sure whether the accused is the person who was alleged to be the owner of exbt.M-1 and 2 who was present at the time of recovering the articles.

**PARA – 15 :** From his cross examination it appears that the witnesses did not identify the accused that came to the PO at the time of recovering the exbt.M-1 and 2 and the witnesses was not sure whether the accused was the person who was alleged to have put the exbt.M-1 and 2 to the shop of Noel.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 13, 14 & 15 :**

****As mentioned, soon after the brother told that Mr. Vanlalpeka was keeping his bag inside their shop, two civilian witnesses were called and came to the shop namely Pu Lalsawmkima of Chanmari and Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari and in their presence Mr. Eddie-a, took out the bag from one corner of the shop as demanded. When he opened the bag two small arms were found inside the bag. The recovered articles were seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. At the time of seizing, witnesses’ statement, accused statement and seizing officer’s statement were also recorded. The brother claimed that they did not know the content of the bag and that they were not their property. They further mentioned that they will be able to help the operation party to arrest the real owner of the bag by insisting him (the owner of the bag) to come to their shop to take his bag. Since operation party’s information also confirmed that the brothers are not the owner of the arms and that they are not the one who was selling the arms, an immediate attempt to lure the suspect in the shop itself was again continued. Mr. Noel-a called the owner and demanded him to take away his bag from their shop. Soon after, the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner then took out his bag from the place he hid it when asked. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he tried to sell earlier that day. The owner of the bag (the accused) also admitted that the bag and its content were his property and that he was the one who kept/hid the bag inside the shop. Upon hearing the accused confession, the accused was apprehended and the recovered articles were also seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. It has to be noted that, the said witnesses did not took or record any photographs or videos of the accused or the event, it can be assume that after such a long time of case trailing, the witness’s memory might have became vague about the event which unable him to clearly identify the accused as well as the seized articles when they were presented before him in the court. It was not known if the court had called-on/summoned the other civilian witness Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari, had he summoned by the court, it was hopeful that he could have given a clearer statement than Pu Lalsawkima about the event. The two seizure witnesses’ statements are also enclosed herewith.

**PARA – 16 :** The statement of PW-2 Lalrokima, SI, CID(SB) was in para 6 above and from his statement it appears that at the time of recovering exbt.M-1 and 2 Noel Lalrintluanga and his brother Eddy and two other employees of the shop were present and Eddy took out small bag wherein the two exhibits were put in. He also identified exbt.P-1 the seizure memo and he was also the complainant who lodged the FIR and he proved the FIR exhibit P-2 and he also identified exbt.M-1 and 2. The seizure memo and the FIR were proved.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 16 :**

 As stated above, gist of the event was as described as before, when the operation party reached Mr. Noela’s shop, the co-owner of the shop Mr. Eddie-a who is the younger brother of Mr. Noel-a told that the person (the suspect) whom the operation party wanted to see had left the shop a few minutes before the operation team arrived. The owner of the shop Mr. Noel-a also came inside the shop after awhile and when the two brothers were questioned they said that one of their distant friends came to the shop that day and that one of them had kept his back at one corner of the shop the operation team called on two civilian witnesses were called and came to the shop namely Pu Lalsawmkima of Chanmari and Pu Lalhmangaiha of Chanmari and in their presence Mr. Eddie-a, took out the bag from one corner of the shop as demanded. When he opened the bag two small arms were found inside the bag. The recovered articles were seized in the presence of the mentioned civilian witnesses. At the time of seizing, witnesses’ statement, accused statement and seizing officer’s statement were also recorded. Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a statements were also recorded. The brother claimed that they did not know the content of the bag and that they were not their property. They further mentioned that they will be able to help the operation party to arrest the real owner of the bag by insisting him (the owner of the bag) to come to their shop to take his bag. Since operation party’s information also confirmed that the brothers are not the owner of the arms and that they are not the one who was selling the arms, an immediate attempt to lure the suspect in the shop itself was again continued. Mr. Noela called the owner and demanded him to take away his bag from their shop. Soon after, the owner of the bag came to the shop and he was immediately apprehended by the operation team. In the presence of civilian witnesses, the bag’s owner then took out his bag from the place he hid it when asked. As demanded, he opened the bag and took out two small arms which he tried to sell earlier that day.

**PARA****– 17 :** PW-1 stated that the two exhibits M-1 and 2 were taken out by Noel-a who stated that it was put by the accused. However, PW-2 stated that the two arms were taken, out by Eddy. There is discrepancy and I am unable to know who took out the two arms.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 17 :**

At first, after the witnesses arrive the place of occurrence, Mr. Eddie-a took out the bag and opened in which the two small arms were found and he closed the bag and put it back where it was kept before i.e. after seizure was made. The bag was later on taken out by the accused Vanlalpeka as demanded in the presence of said civilian witnesses. It could be that, the examined civilian witness might have not remembered it correctly about the person who firstly took out the bag.

**PARA****– 18 :** ****In his cross examination, PW-2 did not deny the suggestion that the two arms were seized from the shop of Noel Lalrintluanga and did not recover from the possession of the accused and he also did not deny the suggestion that seized articles were not seized by him.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 18 :**

All legal formalities were observed by the seizing officer at the time and place of seizing.

**PARA****– 19 :** ****PW-4 Lalbuatsaiha, SI of Police was the Case i/o who obtained the prosecution sanction from the District Magistrate and he also sent the two arms to the FSL however before his completion of investigation he was transferred to other place. He arrested the accused and he proved the arrest memo exbt.P-4. In his cross examination he stated that he was not the seizing officer and PW-2 also stated in his cross examination he was not the seizing officer but in the seizure memo exbt.P-1 the seizing officer is PW-2 Lalrokima.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 19 :**

It was unfortunate that the case I/O was transferred during the investigation. The second I/O to whom the case was endorsed might have some difficulties in continuing conduction of further investigation that he might not have deep knowledge about the case and also that he might have missed the necessity to include Mr. Noel-a and Mr. Eddie-a as prosecution witnesses. The case I/O included four prosecution witnesses in the chargesheet – the seizing officer, the two civilian seizure witnesses and the case I/O himself. Though statements of Mr. Noel-a and Mr.Eddie-a were submitted before the court alongwith other documents, their name were not included in the chargesheet.

**PARA****– 20 :** ****PW-3 Jonathan L. Ralte, SI of Police continued the investigation after PW-4 was transferred and he filed the charge sheet exbt.P-3 and exbt.P-3 the charge sheet was proved.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 20 :**

The case was taken up by two I/Os. Because the first I/O was transferred before he concluded the case and it was later on endorsed to other I/O to conduct further investigation. It was the second I/O who conducted post seizing investigation and concluded the case by submitting chargesheet to the court.

****PARA****– 21 :** PW-5 R. Sangzuala, Asst. Director, FSL examined the two arms and exbt.P-6 is his report and he proved the report and from his report and statement it appears that the two arms were working condition and serviceable.**

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 20 :**No Comment.

**PARA – 22 :** In this instant case the prosecution did not examine Noel Lalrintluanga in whose shop the two arms were recovered and they did not also examine the brother of Noel Lalrintluannga Eddy who was also allege to have taken two arms from the shop.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 22 :**

Regarding this particular case, the Mr. Noela and his brother Mr. Eddie-a were called/summoned to present themselves for questioning several times at CID (SB) office at Bungkawn. On that occasions also, no direct involvement was not seen from the brother’s side, they themselves also accepted to appear before the court to confess the truth as it was (i.e. against the accused Vanlalpeka) if needed. The case I/O was also hinted to include the brother as prosecution witnesses. Their statement were also clearly recorded at the time of seizing which were submitted to the case I/O. Since, the CID(SB) personnel were not empowered to take up cases after cases are filed, further and deeper investigation was endorsed to the case I/O of the concerned P.S. It is wholly the decision of the I/O whether to include the said brother as prosecution witnesses or not.

**PARA****– 23 :** In view of the above facts and circumstances, I hold that the prosecution is unable to prove the guilt of the accused beyond a shadow of all reasonable doubts and the accused is acquitted accordingly.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 23 :**No comment.

**PARA****– 24 :** The seized materials exbt.M-1 and 2 vide CMR No. 65/12 shall be confiscated.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 24 :**No comment.

**PARA****– 25 :** The case stands disposed off accordingly.

**COMMENTS ON PARA – 25 :**No comment.

**Enlosed :**Some connected papers