****REPORT ON SEIZURE OF AK 47****

Reference to Vaivakawn PS Case No.223/2020 dt.5.9.2020 u/s 25 (1AA)/27(1)(2) Arms Act regarding seizure of 2 (two) AK-47 rifles by Vaivakawn PS, the arrested accused person Floyd Ramfangzauva(33) of Kanan veng Aizawl disclosed during interrogation by Police that the seized weapons belongs to one Lallaizauva s/o Thangliana of Chhippui,Bangladesh.

One of the officers of CID(SB) who personally knew Lallaizauva from past encounters, managed to contact him through mobile phone yesterday ie 7.9.2020. The owner of the weapons Lallaizauva, who is presently staying in Chhippui village of Bangladesh confess that the 2 (two) AK 47 seized by Police belongs to him and he did entrusted Floyd Ramfangzauva to sent it to Bangladesh for further selling it to United Peoples' Democratic Front (UPDF) militant group. (UPDF is Chakma insurgency faction group operating in Chittagong hills tracts of Bangladesh). He further stated that he purchased the 2 (two) AK 47 from one Enga (he don’t know his full name) of Tiddim, Myanmar during November last year ie, 2019. He took the weapons @ Rs.3.5 lacs per piece (though he did not yet pay it) and intends to sell it to UPDF @ Rs. 4.3 lacs.

Lallaizauva used to stay at a rented house in Hunthar veng Aizawl till January this year ie, 2020 and just before he left Aizawl for Bangladesh, he sent some of his packed belongings/household goods at the house of Floyd Ramfangzauva (which includes the weapons packed in a bag). Floyd Ramfangzauva, under the instruction of Lallaizauva then sent the weapons to Phuldungsei via Maxi Cab service where another person, Salemthara of Phuldungsei Vengchung was supposed to collect them. These two arrested persons, Floyd Ramfangzauva and Salemthara denied having any profit from this illicit business and that they merely comply to the instruction of Lallaizauva.

When the maxi cab, on which the contraband were sent, was proceeding for its destination, Police Party intercepted it at Rangvamual near Mizoram Truck Owner Associations' Check Gate and recovered the said 2 (two) AK 47 rifles with 2 (two) magazines and seized the illegal items formally in the presence of local witnesses. Police party traced out the sender as Floyd Ramfangzauva (33) S/o Zothangliana of Kanan Veng, Aizawl and apprehended him accordingly. The instant suspect, Floyd Ramfangzauva disclosed that he sent the aforementioned 2(two) AK 47 rifles with 2 (two) magazines to Salemthara (40) s/o Chawnghlira of Phuldungsei through the maxi cab on the morning of dt.05.09.2020 for further sending to Bangladesh. In the meantime, Police Party was also sent to Phuldungsei and nab the said Salemthara while he was inspecting to receive the said Arms package at Phuldungsei.

 The said Lallaizauva was earlier arrested on 25.3.2018 by W.Phaileng Police for carrying 2060 nos. of AK ammunitions (vide.W.Phaileng PS Case No.6/2018 dt.26.3.2018 u/s 25 (1AA) Arms Act r/w 34 IPC). He is presently out on bail in this case and the bailer is PC Lalbiakdika S/o Tlanglawma of Field Veng, Mamit who works as UDC at CMO Office, Mamit. As per the order of Additional District &amp; Session Judge, Aizawl District, Aizawl on 7.8.2020, the bail bond which amounted to Rs. 10,000/- has been forfeited as PC Lalbiakdika, the bailer was unable to produce Lallaizauva at the court.

 The arrested accused Floyd Ramfangzauva and the alleged owner of the weapon, Lallaizauva are close relatives ie, cousins.