****BRIEF HIGHLIGHT OF THE EVENT OF CHAKMA ETHNIC ISSUE****

1. The Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized sit-in demonstration cum picketing for 6 days (ie, 18th, 19th, 22nd, 23rd, 24th &amp; 25th September, 2014) against the staff of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department at Technical Wing, Higher &amp; Technical Education Office, Chaltlang, Aizawl to show their displeasure against the inclusion of Chakmas and other non-indigenous students under Category-I of the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE) - 2014. The protesters distributed pamphlets prepared by MZP General Headquarters in which the MZP clarified their point of protest and claimed that Chakmas are not indigenous people of the State of Mizoram and therefore should be excluded from the Category-I in the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE).

 On 24.9.2014, around 1,000 students have assembled near the said office. Heavy security forces along with Executive Magistrate were also deployed on the spot and all the agitating college students, except some student leaders, peacefully dispersed at 02:00 pm. Police have apprehended 13 (thirteen) leaders of the agitating students in the afternoon at around 04:05pm and were booked vide Bawngkawn PS Case No. 192/14, dt.24/9/14 u/s 188 IPC.

 On 25.9.2014, thousands of students took out a protest rally within Aizawl City. The agitating students were divided into two groups and marched towards office of the Technical Wing of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department, Chaltlang causing disruption of traffic movement within Aizawl City. All roads leading to Chaltlang area were blocked by the agitating students. They were, however, unable to cross the Police cordon at two locations, i.e. at Chaltlang Dawrkawn and near the office of Technical Wing, H&amp;TE Department. All the agitating students peacefully dispersed at around 02:20pm after the leaders of MZP General Headquarters reached an agreement with the Government of Mizoram. All the arrested 13 (thirteen) student leaders were also released in the evening.

 Similarly, in some of the District Headquarters like Lunglei, Mamit, Kolasib, Champhai and Serchhip, the concerned MZP Sub-Headquarters have also organized a peaceful protest/agitation on this day.

 The Central YMA also strongly argued that Chakmas are never indigenous people of Mizoram and praised the initiatives of MZP for protesting inclusion of Chakmas as indigenous people of Mizoram under Category-I in STEE.

2. Central Young Mizo Association (CYMA) held its Central Coordination Committee Meeting on 10.9.2014 at CYMA hall, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl stressed on the need to conduct operation of census of Chakma (foreigners) within Mizoram in close coordination with the state government. CYMA also agreed not to undertake such operation on its own (i.e CYMA alone). However, they decided to collect Rs. 5/- each from every members of CYMA in connection with such census operation.

 They also reiterated CYMA commitment to check illegal settlement of Chakma foreigners in Mizoram and maintained that enumeration of Chakma population would be conducted through Village Population Register. A sum of Rs.2,08,331/- has so far been collected from the CYMA members to meet the expenditure for such enumeration.

3. MZP General Hqrs. Aizawl is intending to lay a foundation stone of the so called Zofate Chawlhbuk (Shed for the Mizos) at Borapansury-I, Lawngtlai District on 14.11.2014. The foundation stone will be laid on 14.11.2014 by organising a small function. In this regard MZP President Pu Lalhmachhuana accompanied by General Secy. and Financial Secy. and a number of MPZ members proceeded to Borapansury on 13.11.2014 from Aizawl.