****MZP AGITATION****

 The Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized sit-in demonstration cum picketing for 6 days (ie, 18th, 19th, 22nd, 23rd, 24th &amp; 25th September, 2014) against the staff of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department at Technical Wing, Higher &amp; Technical Education Office, Chaltlang, Aizawl to show their displeasure against the inclusion of Chakmas and other non-indigenous students under Category-I of the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE) - 2014. The protesters distributed pamphlets prepared by MZP General Headquarters in which the MZP clarified their point of protest and claimed that Chakmas are not indigenous people of the State of Mizoram and therefore should be excluded from the Category-I in the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE).

 On 24.9.2014, around 1,000 students have assembled near the said office. Heavy security forces along with Executive Magistrate were also deployed on the spot and all the agitating college students, except some student leaders, peacefully dispersed at 02:00 pm. Police have apprehended 13 (thirteen) leaders of the agitating students in the afternoon at around 04:05pm and were booked vide Bawngkawn PS Case No. 192/14, dt.24/9/14 u/s 188 IPC.

 On 25.9.2014, thousands of students took out a protest rally within Aizawl City. The agitating students were divided into two groups and marched towards office of the Technical Wing of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department, Chaltlang causing disruption of traffic movement within Aizawl City. All roads leading to Chaltlang area were blocked by the agitating students. They were, however, unable to cross the Police cordon at two locations, i.e. at Chaltlang Dawrkawn and near the office of Technical Wing, H&amp;TE Department. All the agitating students peacefully dispersed at around 02:20pm after the leaders of MZP General Headquarters reached an agreement with the Government of Mizoram. All the arrested 13 (thirteen) student leaders were also released in the evening.

 Similarly, in some of the District Headquarters like Lunglei, Mamit, Kolasib, Champhai and Serchhip, the concerned MZP Sub-Headquarters have also organized a peaceful protest/agitation on this day.