****MZP AGITATION****

 

 On 18.9.2014, The Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized sit-in demonstration cum picketing against the staff of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department to show their displeasure against the inclusion of Chakmas and other non-indigenous students under Category-I of the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE) - 2014. The MZP demanded for the cancellation of the allotment of State quotas to these Chakma students. Around 400 people took part in the agitation including students from Government schools. The agitation was temporarily called off at 4:45 pm.

 The Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters continued their picketing of Higher &amp; Technical Department on the next day ie 19.9.2014, around 250 persons took part in the picketing. The picketing was suspended at 4:15 pm.

 On 22.9.2014, The Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters continued their picketing of Technical Wing, Higher &amp; Technical Education Office, Chaltlang for the third day. Around 250 student activists assembled near the said office. The protesters distributed pamphlets prepared by MZP General Headquarters in which the MZP clarified their point of protest and claimed that Chakmas are not indigenous people of the State of Mizoram and therefore should be excluded from the Category-I in the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE).

 On 23.9.2014, MZP General Headquarters continued their picketing of Technical Wing, Higher &amp; Technical Education office, Chaltlang for the fourth day. Around 70 student activists assembled near the said office today. The agitation has been temporarily called off /suspended at 3:30 pm following the request of the Hon'ble Home Minister and Government officials.

 On 24.9.2014, MZP General Headquarters continued their picketing of Technical Wing, Higher &amp; Technical Education Office, Chaltlang for the fifth day. Around 1000 students have assembled near the said office. Heavy security forces along with Executive Magistrate were also deployed on the spot and all the agitating college students, except some student leaders, peacefully dispersed at 02:00 pm. Mizoram Police have arrested 13 (thirteen) leaders of the agitating students in the afternoon at around 04:05 pm and were taken to Aizawl Police Station and they were booked in connection with Bawngkawn PS Case No. 192/14, dt.24/9/14 u/s 188 IPC.

 On 25.9.2014, thousands of students took out a protest rally within Aizawl City in demand of annulment of the inclusion of Chakma students in Category-I of the State Technical Entrance Examination (STEE). The agitating students were divided into two groups and marched towards office of the Technical Wing of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department, Chaltlang causing disruption of traffic movement within Aizawl City. All roads leading to Chaltlang area were blocked by the agitating students. They were, however, unable to cross the Police cordon at two locations, i.e. at Chaltlang Dawrkawn and near the office of Technical Wing, H&amp;TE Department. All the agitating students peacefully dispersed at around 02:20 pm after the leaders of MZP General Headquarters reached an agreement with the Government of Mizoram. All the arrested 13 (thirteen) student leaders were also released on this evening.

 Similarly, in some of the District Headquarters like Lunglei, Mamit, Kolasib, Champhai and Serchhip, the concerned MZP Sub-Headquarters have also organized a peaceful protest/agitation on this day.