MIZORAM-ASSAM BORDER SITUATION REPORT No. MSB/CB/B-4/2021/05 Dated 5th January, 2021 In continuation of our report vide No. MSB/CB/B-4/2021/2 Dt. 4.1.2021, Situation Report on Mizoram-Assam Border is as under: 1. Thinghlun, Mamit District Report: Information has been received that road widening work was carried out by Assam government between Zaite Village, Assam and Thinghlun Village, Mizoram by engaging private contractor today i.e., 5.1.2021. The road widening work reached upto the point where BSF personnel are deployed by Mizoram government which is around 100 meters from the site of incident where 4th IR Battalion Camps are set up. The construction work was stopped by BSF personnel on duty and the constructor was instructed not to carry on the said work beyond the point towards Mizoram site where BSF personnel are deployed, and then the construction work was stopped and the workers left the area at around 1:00 p.m. today’s afternoon. 2. Kanhmun, Mamit District Report : 8 (eight) vehicles (HMV-4, MMV-4, LMV-Nil) carrying essential commodities entered Mizoram via Medili Bridge, Assam-Mizoram border today i.e., 5.1.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. 5 (five) vehicles (HMV – 1, MMV – 4, LMV - Nil) transited their goods at Medili Bridge. 12 (twelve) vehicles (HMV – 4, MMV – 7, LMV - 1) carrying essential commodities entered Mizoram via Damcherra Bridge, Tripura-Mizoram border today i.e., 5.1.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. 6 (six) vehicles (HMV-Nil, LMV-1, MMV–5) transited their goods at Damcherra Bridge. 3. Saihapui ‘V’, Kolasib District : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. 4. Bairabi, Kolasib District Report : 75 (seventy five) vehicles (HMV-36, MMV – 3, LMV – 29, LPG-Nil, Maxi Cab - 7) entered Bairabi from Assam today i.e., 5.1.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. Situation is normal. Reference to our report vide No. MSB/CB/B-4/2020/747 Dt. 27.12.2020 road widening work under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadhak Yojana (PMGSY) executed by Assam at Assam - Mizoram border around 2 (two) kms towards Assam side from Zophai BOP is still remain halted till today i.e., 5.1.2021. 5. Phaisen, Kolasib District Report : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. Cont/-2..... SECRET -2- 6. Vairengte, Kolasib District Report : 145 (one hundred forty five) vehicles (HMV – 63, MMV – 23, LMV – 24, LPG – 17, Maxi Cab – 5, Oil Tanker – 13, Bus - Nil) entered Vairengte from Assam today i.e., 5.1.2021 between 8:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Situation is normal. 7. Saiphai, Kolasib District Report : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. Situation is under close watch. (K. LALREMSANGA) Sr. Superintendent of Police CID (SB) : Mizoram : Aizawl. SECRET