MIZORAM-ASSAM BORDER SITUATION REPORT No.MSB/CB/B-4/2021/452 Dated 12th June, 2021 In continuation of our report vide No. MSB/CB/B-4/2021/451 Dt. 11.06.2021, Situation Report on Mizoram-Assam Border is as under :- 1. Thinghlun, Mamit District Report: No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. 2. Saikhawthlir, Mamit District Report: Chuhvel Joint NGOs Meeting was held today i.e., 12.6.2021 @ 7:00 a.m. at Community Hall, Chuhvel. Pu Lalthlanawma, President, Chuhvel Branch YMA presided the meeting and 28 (twenty eight) members from VC, YMA, MHIP and MUP attended the meeting. The meeting resolved the following in connection with the recent tension along Assam-Mizoram border: i) The State Government should immediately set up BOP at Chuhvel. ii) The government should protect all land owned by residents of Chuhvel and Saikhawthlir village within inner line reserved area. iii)To conduct mass community work for verification of inter-state boundary border in between Chuhvel, Mamit District and Gutguti, Assam on 14.6.2021 @ 11:00 a.m. and to invite DC, Mamit and SDO(C), Kawrthah to attend the said community work. 3. Kanhmun, Mamit District Report : 11 (eleven) vehicles (HMV-1, MMV-9, LMV-1) entered Mizoram from Assam via., Medili Bridge today, i.e., 12.6.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. and no vehicle (HMV-Nil, MMV-Nil, LMV-Nil) transited their goods at Medili Bridge. 16 (sixteen) vehicles (HMV-4, MMV-10, LMV-2) entered Mizoram from Tripura via., Damcherra bridge today, i.e., 12.6.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. and no vehicle (MMV-Nil, LMV-Nil) transited their goods at Damcherra Bridge. 4. Saihapui ‘V’, Kolasib District : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. 5. Bairabi, Kolasib District Report : 22 (twenty two) vehicles (HMV-15, MMV-Nil, LMV-3, Maxi Cab-4) entered Bairabi from Assam today, i.e., 12.6.2021 @ 3:30 p.m. Situation is normal. Cont/-..... -2- 6. Phaisen, Kolasib District Report : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. 7. Vairengte, Kolasib District Report : 136 (one hundred thirty six) vehicles (HMV-51, MMV-32, LMV-19, LPG-7, Maxi Cab-3, Oil Tanker-24, Bus-Nil) entered Vairengte from Assam today during 8:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Situation is normal. 8. Saiphai, Kolasib District Report : No new development has been reported during the last 24 (twenty four) hours and situation is normal. Situation is under close watch. (K. LALREMSANGA) Sr. Superintendent of Police CID (SB) : Mizoram : Aizawl. SECRET