Page No.# 1/5 GAHC010163712020 THE GAUHATI HIGH COURT (HIGH COURT OF ASSAM, NAGALAND, MIZORAM AND ARUNACHAL PRADESH) Case No. : PIL/68/2020 MIZORAM BAR ASSOCIATION (SOCIETY REGISTRATION NUMBER NO.SRMZ 19/1984), REGISTERED OFFICE AT- MIZORAM BAR ASSOCIATION OFFICE, AIZAWL DISTRICT COURT COMPLEX, TREASURY SQUARE, AIZAWL-796001, MIZORAM, REP. BY ITS PRESIDENT, SH. L.H. LIANHRIMA, S/O. L.H. VANNAWLA (L), R/O. DURTLANG, AIZAWL, MIZORAM. VERSUS THE UNION OF INDIA AND 13 ORS REP. BY THE SECRETARY TO THE GOVT. OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS, NORTH BLOCK, NEW DELHI-110001, INDIA. 2:THE STATE OF MIZORAM REP. BY THE CHIEF SECRETARY GOVT. OF MIZORAM AIZAWL MIZORAM-796001. 3:THE STATE OF ASSAM REP. BY THE CHIEF SECRETARY GOVT. OF ASSAM DISPUR GUWAHATI. 4:THE SECRETARY HOME DEPTT. GOVT. OF MIZORAM MIZORAM NEW CAPITAL COMPLEX AIZAWL-796001 MIZORAM. Page No.# 2/5 5:THE SECRETARY HOME DEPTT. GOVT. OF ASSAM SECRETARIAT ROAD DISPUR GUWAHATI-781006 ASSAM. 6:THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF POLICE GOVT. OF MIZORAM MIZORAM POLICE HEADQUARTERS KHATIA AIZAWL-796001. 7:THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF POLICE GOVT. OF ASSAM ASSAM POLICE HEADQUARTERS ULUBARI GUWAHATI-781007. 8:THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER KOLASIB DISTRICT KOLASIB-796081 MIZORAM. 9:THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER MAMIT DISTRICT MAMIT-796441 MIZORAM. 10:THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER CACHAR DISTRICT SILCHAR-788001 ASSAM. 11:THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER KARIMGANJ DISTRICT KARIMGANJ-788710 ASSAM. 12:THE UNION OF INDIA Page No.# 3/5 REP. BY THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF RAILWAY RAIL BHAWAN 156-A RAISINA ROAD RAJPATH AREA CENTRAL SECRETARIAT NEW DELHI-110001. 13:THE NORTH EAST FRONTIER RAILWAY REP. BY GENERAL MANAGER T.N. TOWER 144 ASSAM TRUNK ROAD MALEGAON GUWAHATI ASSAM. 14:NF RAILWAYS REP. BY THE DEPUTY CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION) BAWNGKWN BRIGADE AIZAWL MIZORAM Advocate for the Petitioner : MR. A R MALHOTRA Advocate for the Respondent : ASSTT.S.G.I. BEFORE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE N. KOTISWAR SINGH HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SOUMITRA SAIKIA ORDER 05.04.2021 (N. Kotiswar Singh, J) Though no one is present for the petitioner, considering the submission made by learned counsel for the respondents, we are of the view that it may not be necessary to continue this PIL. The relief claim in the PIL is as to why, “(i) The Hon’ble High Court will not issue an appropriate writ, order or direction asking the respondents to take immediate steps for removal of the illegal and unconstitutional blockade of National Highway, NH-306 at Lailapur and the Inter-State Highway connecting Karimganj District, Assam and Mamit district, Mizoram at Medili along with the blockade of the Railway line between Silchar Page No.# 4/5 Bairabi and to ensure that such illegal and unconstitutional blockades do not take place again and after hearing the cause that may be shown by the parties to finally make the rule absolute and pass any other necessary orders or directions as deemed fit by the Hon’ble Court.” 2. It has been submitted by Mr. R. Dhar, learned counsel for the State respondent that an affidavit has been filed on behalf of the respondent Nos. 3, 5 &amp; 7 by one Smti Prabhati Thaosen, IAS, Secretary to the Government of Assam, Home and Political Department, Government of Assam, Dispur stating that the situation in the Inter-State Assam-Mizoram border at Medly in Karimganj district is under constant vigil and District Administration had already taken all possible steps to maintain free and smooth vehicular traffic movement from Karimganj to Mizoram and the vehicular traffic including transportation of essential goods and items to and fro has been going on as usual without any interruption through Karimganj district. 3. We would like to mention that it is the primary responsibility of all the States including the State of Assam and Mizoram to ensure smooth movement of traffic both passengers and goods on the National Highways and it has been submitted on behalf of the State of Assam that normalcy has been restored. 4. In this regard, it has been submitted by Mr. S. Chakraborty, learned counsel for the Railways that movement of goods train in the Bhairabi-Silchar sector has been already restored. 5. We have also perused the affidavit filed by one Vijoy Kumar Jha, Section Officer in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi on 06.03.2021. It has been mentioned in Para-2 (viii) of the said affidavit that the Union Home Secretary held a meeting with the Chief Secretaries of Assam and Mizoram through Video Conference on 08.11.2020 and it was agreed that both the State Governments should take necessary steps for restoring peace at the Inter-State boundary and restore normalcy and ensure smooth movement of vehicles. It has been further mentioned in the affidavit that the vehicular movement on National Highway No. 306 connecting Assam and Mizoram restarted on 11.11.2020 and the Ministry of Home Affairs was constantly in touch with the Government of Assam as well as Government of Mizoram Page No.# 5/5 and urging both the State Governments to work for restoration of complete peace and amity and de-escalate tensions along the border areas and as a result the process to de-escalate tension along the border was set in and movement of vehicular traffic was restored. 6. We are of the view that if normalcy in traffic movement on the National Highway and rail, road has been restored as mentioned above, it may not be necessary to continue this PIL. Accordingly, we close this PIL. However, it goes without saying that if such situation arises in future leading to disruption of smooth movement of traffic both passengers as well as goods, the petitioner will be at liberty to approach this Court again. JUDGE JUDGE Comparing Assistant