MIZORAM- TRIPURA

 Information has been received that Shri. Mevar Kumar Jamatia, Tripura Forest Minister; District Magistrate North Tripua; SP, North Tripura; SDM, Kanchanpur; SDPO, Kanchanpur; DFO, Kanchanpur; SDFO, Kanchanpur and Leaders of Bru Hindu religious community visited Thaidawr Tlang, under Phuldungsei VC, Mamit District on 26.10.2020 @ 2:00 p.m. Upom learning their visist learder of Mizo Convention of Zampui Hills, Tripura rushed to Thaidawr Tlang, but the Minister and party already left when they reached the area. During their visit, the Miniser and party performed religious rites at the area.

 Further, around 50(fifty) Tripura State Rifles(TSR) personnel are deployed at Thaidawr Tlang and they are stationed at old BSNL Office and PRJB School at Phuldungsei (both building are within Mizoram side). Earlier, they were performing duty at the approach road of Thaidawr Tlang, however, since Monday night i.e. 26.10.2020, around 20(twenty ) TSR personnel are deployed at Thaidawr Tlang/ Hill peak.

 On 27.10.2020 @ 3:00 p.m. Post Commander, New Kawnpui BOP, 5th IR Battalion and party, who intended to conduct spot verification at Thaidawr Tlang as per instruction of SP, Mamit were stoped by TSR personnel on their way to Thaidawr Tlang and they then returned. TSR personnel on duty told them that visit of Thaidawr Tlang is not allowed without prior permission from Tripura Government.

 Information has been received that Tripura Forest Department has taken initiative for constructionof Forest Check Post at Khantlang Junction (Mizoram side), Mizoram-Tripura border which is a round 1 km towards east from New KawnpuiBOP on 11.2.2021. In this regard, VC Khantlang and Young Chakma Association(YCA) submitted a written petition to Mizoram Home Minister and Forest Minister on 13.2.2021 which stated their opposition for construction of Tripura Forest Check Post at Khantlang Junction as the area fell under Khantlang VC Jurisdiction and requested ti take necessary action.

 In connection with the above, SDPO(Civil), West Phaileng and SDPO, West Phaileng visited the area on 15.2.2021 and they held a short interaction with Tripura Forest RO and staff, who were available at the area. Officials of Mizoraminformed Tripura Forest RO not to resume their initiative for construction of Forest Check Post at Khantlang Junction, Mizoram-Tripura border as the area fell under Mizoram Jurisdiction. Information received indicated that officials of Tripura forest department to not have any objection and at the time, they still intended to construct Forest Chect Post near the area.

SDPO,Kanchanpur, North Tripura, Rang Officer and officials of Tripura Forest Department, personnel of BSF and Tripura State Rifles came at Khantlang Junction(Mizoram side), Mizoram-Tripura border, which is located around 1 km towards east from New Kawnpui BOP on 23.2.2021 @ 12:00 noon with an intention to construct Tripura Forest Check post at the said area. Upon learning this, SI Liantluanga, Post Commander, New Kawnpui BOP rushed to the spot and informed officials of Tripura government not to take any action for construction of Forest Check Post at the area without the approval of Mamit DC. However, Tripura Forest Officials erected signboard bearing 'Forest Check Post Kawnpui, Kanchanpur Forest Sub-Division, Kanchanpur, North Tripura' at the area, and the signboard was subsequently removed by Post Commander, New Kawnpui BOP while in presence of officials of Tripura State Government. After a short period, Officials of Tripura government left the area and no untoward incident has been reported.

Border Issues with Tripura:

 The standoff between Tripura and Mizoram over Phuldungsei Village in the Zampui Hill range, started in August, 2020 when Tripura Administration identified that 130 (one hundred thirty) people living in Phuldungsei Village were registered both in Tripura and Mizoram, had named in electoral roll, ration card and other public welfare benefit schemes of both states. Later, Tripura claimed Phuldungsei and adjoining parts (Thaidawr Tlang) are parts of Tripura.

 The tension flared up after an announcement by SONGRONGMA, a local tribal organisation, which said it would construct a Shiv Mandir at Thaidawr Tlang and do community activities in the area on 19 - 20.10.2020. Mizo Students Union (MSU) and Mizo Convention, Tripura expressed their opposition and DC, Mamit issued prohibitory orders in the village. The prohibitory order was contested by Tripura on grounds of administrative command. Subsequently, after a dialogue, the temple construction and the prohibitory order were both cancelled. Mizoram Home Secretary sent its counterpart Tripura Home Secretary on 28.10.2020 wherein it reiterated that Thaidawr Tlang is a part of Mizoram, and requested to shift a contingent of about 100 Tripura State Rifles (TSR) personnel stationed at Thaidawr Tlang be shifted inside Tripura and any construction work at the area should be removed.

 Further, information received stated that Tripura State Rifle (TSR) personnel obstructed the ongoing water supply work under Jal Jeevan Mission excuted by PHE Dept. Govt. of Mizoram in between Zomuantlang to Phuldungsei-Zampui on 3.5.2021. In this regard on 5.5.2021. Around 20 (twenty) persons representing All NGOs, Phuldungsei met TSR personnel on duty today i.e., 6.5.2021 @ 7:00 a.m. and informed them that they intended PHE Dept. Govt. Of Mizoram to continue the ongoing water supply work to their Village at any cost.

MIZORAM - MANIPUR

Information has been received that Manipur Government renovated and block topped inter-state road between Bungpuilawn and Parvachawm, both Manipur villages, and Daido, Mizoram during the month of May, 2019. The black topping crossed the state boundary within Mizoram state by about 138 meters. In pursuance of the instruction of the Home Minister 2nd IR Battalion personnel posted at Khawlian BOP erected Boundary Pillar at the inter-state boundary in the month of June, 2019. There was no report of any obstruction from Manipur Government regarding the erection of the Pillar.