A. _Front page of VANGLAINI newspaper Dt. 11.4.2013_

_2 robbers of Bungthuam incident arrested_: 2 out of the 8 robbers who robbed a family at the dawn of 7th April, 2013 in Mamit District near Bungthuam were arrested; the robbers had guns and took some money and items from a family who looked after farmland of J.Malsawma.

 Reports of Bungthuam Village Council Secretary HC Lalhmingmawia said that robbers who robbed and manhandled Manaf and his family were traced by the Police led by SDPO of Kawrthah and one Ngirtea of Khawdungsei, North Tripura was arrested on the night of 7th April, 2013 and 2nd-in-command Isaac-a, of Jolidon, North Tripura was also arrested on the night of 9th April, 2013. Police investigation of the robbery revealed that the culprits were of one insurgent group BNLF(T) and that among the guns they carried while robbing Abdul Manaf and his family, 3 are known to be AK-47.

B. _Front page of THE ZOZAM TIMES, THE AIZAWL POST, VANGLAINI & NEWSLINK newspapers Dt. 11.4.2013_

_11 arrested over attack on Police Station_: On the morning of Wednesday ie, 10.4.2013 @ around 4:30AM - 5:30AM, Police arrested 11 persons in connection with the attack on the police station on the night of 16th Feb., 2013. They were released on bail yesterday ie, 10.4.2013. Several government properties were destroyed and 6 police personnel were injured in the attack on police station by angry mob from Bethlehem Veng arsons on the night of 29th Jan., 2013 irked the ire of residents of the locality. With the help of video footage, the police searched for instigators of the mob.

_11 arrested over attack on Police Station and released on bail_: 11 persons of Bethlehem Vengthlang were arrested and released on bail yesterday ie, 10.4.2013. Among the crowd/mob who gathered at Aizawl PS on the night of 16th Feb., 2013, 12 persons were charged for attacking and destroying government and private vehicles. The police arrested 2 women on 2nd Feb., 2013 alleged of torching s number of vehicles and a house of Bethlehem Veng on 29th Jan