****10.5.2022 :** Zampui Tlang Joint NGOs (MUP, MHIP, Tripura Group YMA, Mizo Convention) in its Press Release issued on 10.5.2022 expressed gratitude to Pu Zoramthanga's led Mizoram government, residents of Mizoram and all those involved for commencement of inter-state MST Bus Service named 'Hnam Inpumkhatna Bus (Tribes Integration Bus), between Aizawl and Zampui Hill, Tripura. It also stated that the day the Bus service started i.e., 10.5.2022, will be a memorable day for Mizo tribes in Tripura. It further stated that the said Bus service would strengthen cultural ties and brotherhood among the Mizo communities of the two states, and facilitates better trade relations between the two neighbouring states.**

**17.6.2022 :** Leaders of Mizo Convention, Zampui Hill (Tripura) submitted a written Memorandum to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kanchanpur Sub-Division, North Tripura on 14.6.2022 wherein they stated their intention to oppose the proposed construction of Shiv Mandir at Thaidawr Tlang peak by Bru Songrongma Mthoh (Bru association) till the very end. It also requested SDM, Kanchanpur to take necessary action so as to prevent the proposed construction of Shiv Mandir at the stated site in order to maintain peace and harmony at the area. Information received also stated that members of Bru Songrongma Mthoh visited Thaidawr Tlang on 8.6.2022 for site inspection and they were accompanied by leaders of Brus from Zampui, Tripura.

 It may be mentioned that Bru Songrongma tried to construct Shiv Mandir at the same site during October, 2020 and the same was abandoned due to strong opposition by Mizo Convention and Government of Mizoram. Further, Mizo Convention perceived the various developmental works being undertaken under Swadesh Darshan-II, Ministry of Tourism, Government of India at the inter-state border near Phuldungsei village, Mamit District by Tripura government as an attempt to encroach Mizoram's territory.

**15.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.7.2022 stated that Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, visited Thaidawr Tlang, Zampui Hill Range, and held interactions with leaders of Mizo Convention (MC) at the residence of Raja Hrangvunga, Sabual and Hill Crest Medical Center, Behliangchhip. Pu K. Sapdanga pointed out in his speech that the geographical map of India place Thaidawr Tlang inside the territory of Mizoram and yet it is difficult to understand why the Tourism Department of Tripura takes initiatives at the area. The PR also stated that Mizo Convention Leaders expressed their desire for the Mizoram government to take steps to solve the Thaidawr Tlang issue and initiate talks with the Tripura government. As per the MC Leaders, Thaidawr Tlang is being treated as a part of their territory by the Tripura government as the area was never cared for by the Mizoram government.

****20.7.2022:** ZPM General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram on 20.7.2022, requesting to take steps to prevent any further activities inside Mizoram territory at Thaidawr Tlang, Mamit district by the Tripura government and to take steps to protect the territory of the State. It stated that Tripura government is intending to construct a tower at the said hill and has placed construction materials at the area. It further stated that the move was staunchly opposed by Mizos of Jampui hills (Mizo Convention) and has brought their problems to the notice of the Chief Minister of Mizoram.**