**A. Front page of THE AIZAWL POST newspaper Dt. 2.5.2013**

**Live ammunition of AK-47 and Grenade seized**: On 30th April 2013, a joint team of Sairang Police and Kawnpui Police seized around 300 live ammunitions of AK-47 and 3 Nos. of Chinese Hand Grenade from Rohmingliana's Farm House near Lengpui Airport and arrested the owner of the Farm Rohmingliana of Vaivakawn Zohnuai, Aizawl. On March, 2013, 31 Nos. of AK-47 &amp; some other arms &amp; ammunitions were also seized from the said Farm by Mizoram Police.

**B. Inside page of VANGLAINI newspaper Dt. 2.5.2013**

**Tuipuiral Group YMA wants Saikhumphai to be demolished permanently**: The meeting of Tuipuiral Group YMA on 30th April, i.e. Tuesday night at YMA Run, Zawlsei decided that Saikhumphai village be demolished permanently for the better. Tuipuiral Group YMA felt the need to demolish Saikhumphai four years back. Meanwhile, they condemned the torching down of houses generated by the decision of Gauhati High Court, Aizawl Bench while necessary steps were being taken by YMA Sub-Hqrs., Central YMA &amp; Mizoram Government.

**C. Front page of THE AIZAWL POST newspaper Dt. 2.5.2013**

**Farkawn helped Saikhumphai. HR & LN condemned Government**: On 30th April, Farkawn community gave donations they collected for more than 200 people of Saikhumphai village which was torched down. The donation included 17 bags of rice, 46 blankets and quilts, an amount of ` 23,000/- in cash, a 407 Truck trip of cloths and a number of utensils. Besides these, they bought them pulses, potatoes, onions and other things.

 Meanwhile, Human Rights &amp; Law Network(HR&amp;LN), Mizoram made a press release condemning Governments for failing to prevent the incident of torching down of more than 40 houses at Saikhumphai village. 

**D. Front page of VANGLAINI newspaper Dt. 2.5.2013**

**Road remained closed**: The connecting road between Tripura &amp; Mizoram closed by Langkaih Group YMA on 29th April still remained closed.