**21.4.2022** : A Joint Press Release was issued on 21.4.2022 by Chin National Front (CNF/A); Chin National Organisation (CNO/CNDF); Hualngoram People Organisation (HPO/CDF - Hualngoram); People Defence Army (PDA); People's Defence Force - Kalay (PDF - Kalay) and Zomi Federal Union (ZFU/PDF Zoland) wherein they stated the following:
 (i) Expressed gratitude to Mizoram government, Churches, NGOs, Political  Parties and  the people of Mizoram for rendering necessary assistance  and support to Myanmar refugees, who are taking refuge within the  State.

 (ii) It also expressed regret over reported involvement of Myanmar refugees  in drugs smuggling inside Mizoram, and at the same time, it urged all  Myanmar refugees to refrain from involving in such illegal activities.

 (iii) It urged any arrested accused in drugs smuggling case to refrain from  claiming themselves as Myanmar refugees, and henceforth, they intend  to take necessary follow up action.

 (iv) Appealed all Myanmar refugees to be responsible person in their  respective place of shelter.

****18.5.2022 :** Myanmar Raltlante (Refugees) in its Press Release issued on 18.5.2022 stated that a good number of Myanmar Refugees donated blood at a Blood Donation Camp organized today at Dawrpui Multipurpose Centre, Aizawl. It also stated that the blood donation camp was conducted to show their gratitude towards the Mizo people, NGOs, Churches, Political Parties and State Government for extending necessary assistance to Myanmar Refugees. It further expressed gratitude to Civil Hospital Blood Bank, Dawrpui Branch YMA, Association for Voluntary Blood Donation (AVBD), Central YMA and family of Pu C. Laltanpuia, Mosia Agency, for extending necessary assistances for the success of the said Blood Donation Camp.**

**17.6.2022 :** Pu U Aungthang, Ex-Dy. Chairman, MLA Mindad District Myanmar called a Press Conference on 17.6.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Aizawl Press Club and 24 (twenty four) media persons attended. During the press conference, Pu U Aungthang highlighted the crisis situation of Myanmar. He also stated that he has been arranging medicines and other necessities for the refugees. He further stated that National Unity Government (NUG) has received several donations from various countries and organisations across the globe and clarified that Rs.90 lakhs had gone missing from the bank account used to receive donations as he is not permitted to have bank account in India. He also expressed gratitude to the people of Mizoram, Government of Mizoram and Government of India for showing generosity and support to Myanmar Refugees.

**21.7.2022 :** Chin National Organization/Chin National Defense Force (CNO/CNDF) in its Press Release issued on 20.7.2022 stated that it has come to their notice through media about frequent seizure of narcotics drugs by Mizoram Police and it expressed regret in this regard. It strongly condemned commission of the said illegal act by some miscreants who takes advantage of the warm welcome shown to Myanmar refugees by residents of Mizoram. It urged all concern not to engage in smuggling of narcotics through the Indo-Myanmar border. It further warned those found involved of dire consequences.