**22.4.2022 :** Shri. Tipu Munshi, Bangladesh Commerce Minister along with 8 (eight) Bangladesh officials arrived Aizawl on 22.4.2022 as per the invitation of Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Commerce &amp; Industries Minister. During his stay in Mizoram, Joint Verification of sites of border trade will be conducted. As per scheduled, the Bangladesh Minister and Dr. R. Lalthangliana would visit the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Kawrpuichhuah Lunglei district and proposed 'Border Haat' (market) site in Silsuri, Mamit on 23.4.2022. A meeting will be held with Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram on 25.4.2022, which will be followed by a Press Conference at Secretariat Conference Hall, MINECO.
****25.4.2022 :**Shri. Tipu Munshi, Bangladesh Commerce Minister and Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Commerce &amp; Industries Minister conducted spot verification of Integrated Check Post (ICP), Kawrpuichhuah, Lunglei district and the proposed 'Border Haat' (market) site in Silsuri, Mamit district on 23.4.2022 and they were accompanied by concerned departments officials.  Shri. Tipu Munshi, Bangladesh Commerce Minister met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram at the latter's Office Chamber on 25.4.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. During the meeting, discussion was made on various issues concerning setting up of border haat, cross border trade and development of road infrastructure. Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Commerce &amp; Industries Minister and Pu Lalrintluanga Sailo, Deputy Chief Whip and Dampa constituency MLA also attended the meeting. After the meeting, a Press Conference was held and Bangladesh Minister left Aizawl for Kolkata this afternoon @ 1:00 p.m.**

****02.12.2022 :** Information received stated that 11 (Male-5, female-4, children-2) Bangladesh refugees (Bawm community) entered Kamtuli, near Parva Village, Lawngtlai District on 1.12.2022 and the total numbers of Bangladesh refugees, who are taking shelter within the State increased to 304 (three hundred four). Input received stated that more than 100 (hundred) Bangladesh refugees, who intend to take refuge within the State, are presently stranded inside Bangladesh side, near Indo-Bangla border.**

****05.12.2022 :** Pu JH. Pianga, President, United Bawm, Pang, Lau Association (UBPLA) held a Press Conference on 3.12.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at Lunglei Press Club and 6 (six) media persons attended. During the press conference, he stated that BSF should not deport/push back refugees from Bangladesh as they are Indian citizen, who migrated to Bangladesh due to the resultant crisis of Independence movement in Mizoram, and appealed the State Government and residents of Mizoram to extend necessary assistance to Bangladesh refugees. He also stated that 6 (six) Mizo sub-clans in Bangladesh are fighting for statehood in Bangladesh due to alleged discrimination and deprivation of their various rights. In this regard, Kuki-Chin National Army (KNA) was formed to take necessary action on their demand, and incident of exchange of fire also took place between KNA and Bangladesh Army backed Arakan Army. He strongly condemned BSF for allegedly denying Bangladesh refugees from entering into Mizoram, and expressed his desire to look into the matter by authorities of Indian and Mizoram Government. He also appealed the State Government to provide assistance to Bangladesh refugees and to accommodate them at Uiphumtlang under Chakma Autonomous District Council (CADC) area.**

**19.12.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.12.2022 stated that leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Chinkhanmanga Thomte, Asst. General Secretary, MZP conducted spot visit of Bangladesh refugees, who are taking shelter at Vathuampui and Parva III village today and took stock of the situation. It also stated that they also visited the refugees accommodated at Chamdur P and Mautlang villages yesterday and handed over assistance.During their visit, a meeting was held with the refugees to discuss the various challenges faced by the refugees. It also stated that donation was collected for zo-ethnic Bangladesh refugees during the recently concluded ZOFEST 2022 at Sialsuk and the fund collected was distributed to the refugees during the stated visit. It further stated that the refugees have been temporarily accommodated at Chamdur P, Mautlang, Parva and Vathuampui villages and 'Village Level Committee on Bangladesh Asylum Seeker' was constituted to look after the refugees in each village. 14 (fourteen) refugee's families are accommodated in Chamdur P, 10 (ten) families in Mautlang, 23 (twenty three) families in Vathuampui and 34 (thirty four) families in Parva-III, added the Press Release.