_LAW AND ORDER INCIDENTS FOR THE MONTH OF AUGUST, 2022_

****01.8.2022 :** (a) All NGO Committee, Khawruhlian village had requested the State Government and authority of PWD through a Press Release issued on 12.7.2022 to take necessary action so as to make NH-150 plyable for all vehicles before the end of July, 2022 in view of the difficulties being faced due to landslide triggered by newly constructed double lane National Highway below their village. It also expressed their disappointment over the State Government for not paying any heed on their demand, and such being the case and as per the decision of All NGOs Committee held on 12.7.2022, Khawruhlian All NGOs organized blockade of NH-150 road near Khawruhlian village w.e.f., 1.8.2022 and around 400 (four hundred) protesters participated.**

 In this connection, Addl. DC, Aizawl; authorities of PWD and Khawruhlian All NGOs held a meeting on 1.8.2022 and during the meeting, representatives of the State government assured to take possible necessary action on the demand of All NGOs Committee Khawruhlian village. Subsequently, the road blockade was called off the same afternoon @ 1:45 p.m.

 (b) JAC Chithar and parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar, Lunglei District organised picketing to prevent teachers of Chithar Govt. Middle School from attending office/school from 1.8.2022 to 9.8.2022 in demand of transferring out all erring teachers before the end of August 2022. The picketing was called off after authorities of School Education Department and JAC, Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar held a meeting on 9.8.2022 where the former assured to convey the demands of the picketers to the higher authorities.

 (c) All NGOs, VC Vaisam and parents of students of Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School closed down all Schools located in Vaisam village, Lunglei District from 1.8.2022 till 9.8.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam. The agitation was called off as authorities of School education assured the agitators on 9.8.2022 that that possible necessary action will be taken on their demand.

****02.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized Picketing in front of the office of Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Babutlang, Aizawl on 2.8.2022 @ 8:00 a.m. to prevent Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) from attending office. Around 30 (thirty) protesters participated and they displayed banner highlighting their opposition to re-employment of any government employees. The picketing was called off the same morning as Pu Lalrinsanga availed casual leave.**

****8.8.2022 :** A 'Peaceful Procession' was held on 8.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. under the aegis of Chawngte Joint NGOs consisting of Group YMA, Central Young Chakma Association and Mizoram Chakma Students' Union. Around 400 (four hundred) persons participated in the said Procession. The Procession started from Chawngte 'L' and proceeded up to SDO (C) Chawngte Office. During the procession, Pu ZD Ramngamzauva, President Chawngte Group YMA and Pu Joytirmoy Chakma, President Central Young Chakma Association (CYLA) delivered speeches. They submitted a written Joint Memorandum to the Chief Minister of Mizoram through SDO (C) Chawngte, wherein they stated that their various standing demands, such as posting of regular government employee Doctor and X-ray Technician at CHC Chawngte; Elevation of P&amp;E Chawngte Section to Sub-Division level; posting of women Police and other staff at Chawngte Police Station and to post regular staff at SDO(C) Chawngte Office, etc. and it urged the Chief Minister to fulfil the above demands before the end of 14.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon and necessary action will be taken, if the State government fails to fulfil their demand within the stipulated time. After submission of a Joint Written Memorandum, the crowd dispersed under peaceful atmosphere on the same afternoon .**

**16.8.2022 :** MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District organized picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 16.8.2022 as no positive response has been received in connection with their demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year), both from Lungsen Govt. High School. At the same time, teachers of the said school were allowed to attend the school and 9 (nine) members of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen led by President Lalpekhlua participated in the picketing.

 The picketing was continued till the evening of 30.8.2022 when it was called off after the picketers were given a written assurance by Pu C. Lalthanzama, Addl. Director, School Education to take possible action on their demand.

**22.8.2022 :** 2 (two) youths from Sihphir village named Francis Lalrintluanga (23) s/o Vanlalnghaka and Lalbiaksanga (24) s/o C. Lalsangzuala were physically assaulted by 5 (five) youths from Durtlang Leitan on 21.8.2022 @ 3:30 p.m. at Sakawrhmuituai Tlang. Upon learning the stated incident, residents of Shipphir gathered and apprehended the below mentioned 5 (five) accused persons, and detained at Sihphir VC House, Sihphir.

 (i) Richard Lalmuankima (18) s/o Lalthazuala (L)

 (ii) Lalduhsanga (18) s/o Lalramzauva Ralte (L)

 (iii) Vanlalrempuia (19) s/o Aichhunga

 (iv) Lalremmawia (21) s/o Lalremtluanga

 (v) Lallawmawma (20) s/o J. Lallianzuala.

 In connection with the stated incident, the two victims lodged FIR at Bawngkawn PS the same day. In pursuance of the FIR, Bawngkawn Police proceeded to Sihphir village to bring the accused to the PS for further necessary legal action. However, upon reaching Sihphir VC House, residents of Sihphir demanded written assurance letter for payment of all medical expenses incurred by victims before taking out of the detained accused. The 5 (five) detained accused were taken out by Bawnkawn Police after giving written assurance letter by Durtlang Leitan Branch YMA.

 However, while en-route to Bawngkawn PS, residents of Durtlang Leitan organized road blockade at Durtlang Leitan in demand for withdrawal of FIR and immediate release of the 5 (five) accused persons. The road blockade was called off at around 4:00 a.m. and all the five accused persons were brought to Bawngkawn PS after leaders of Durtlang Leitan convinced the agitating members for taking necessary action to compromise the case. In this connection, Bawngkawn PS C/No. 599 Dt. 22.08.22 u/s 323/341/34 IPC has been registered.