****2.5.2022 :** MZP Headquarters Lunglei continued picketing of DC, Office Lunglei today, i.e., 2.5.2022 @ 7:30 a.m. in demand for posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei and around 15 (fifteen) protesters led by Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President MZP Headquarters Lunglei participated in the picketing.**

 In this connection, Pu Kulothungan, DC Lunglei held a meeting on 2.5.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at SP, Lunglei Office. The meeting was attended by Pu Rex Zarzoliana Vanchhawng, SP, Lunglei; Pu LH. Rothanga, Principal, Govt. Lunglei College; Dr. J. Zorema, Principal, Govt JB College; Pu Albert Lalnunpuia, Vice President, MZP Headquarters Lunglei and Pu B. Lalchhanhima, Secretary, MZP Headquarters Lunglei, representative of Lunglei Sub-Headquarters YMA and concerned officials attended the meeting. During the meeting, DC Lunglei requested leaders of MZP to call off their picketing, but the same could not bear fruitful result.

 After the meeting, Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister held a meetingon the same afternoon @ 1:00 p.m. at his residence, Bazar veng, Lunglei, and it was attended by Pu Lawmawma Tochhawng MLA &amp; HPC Vice Chairman Lunglei; Pu Albert Lalnunpuia, Vice President MZP Headquarters Lunglei and Pu Johan Lalhmangaihzuala, Treasurer, MZP Headquarters Lunglei. Input received stated that the Minister informed leaders of MZP Lunglei that their request would be considered in a meeting under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister of Mizoram of the same day @ 2:00 p.m.

 The protesters dispersed in the evening @ 5:00 p.m. without any untoward incident.

****4.5.2022:**Mizo Zirlai Pawl(MZP) Sub-Headquarters held Emergency Meeting on the evening of 2.5.2022 @5:30p.m. at MZI Office, Venglai Lunglei in connection with their ongoing picketing in demand for posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei. Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President MZP Lunglei presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting decided to instantly call off their ongoing picketing as arrangement has been made by the state government for posting of 3 (three) additional MCS officers so as to meet shortages of MCS officers in Lunglei as per their demand. However, they intend to closely monitor progress of the posting order and take further action as deemed necessary. A Press Release in this regard was issued the same evening.**

****25.5.2022 :** Picketing was organized w.e.f. 25.5.2022 @ 8:30 a.m. in Lawngtlai Town and Bungtlang South village under the aegis of Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai and Bungtlang South PHC. As a result of the said picketing, all government offices, schools, banks and company situated in the stated town/village were closed for today. Around 270 (two hundred seventy) protesters participated in the picketing and performed duty at 17 (seventeen) locations in Lawngtlai town. So far, no report of any untoward incidents due to the stated picketing has been received.**
 In connection with the above, a Press Release was issued by CYLA today, wherein they expressed gratitude for the support rendered by residents of Lawngtlai District in the ongoing picketing. However, the picketing should be strictly carried on as no favorable information has been received in connection with their standing demands from the state government.

****26.5.2022 :** Picketing organized by the Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai and Bungtlang South PHC in Lawngtlai Town and Bungtlang South village was continued on 26.5.2022. So far, no report of any untoward incident due to the stated picketing has been received. Information received stated that even though the government issued an order today for posting of 1 (one) doctor at Bungtlang 'S' PHC, CYLA intends to continue the picketing till all their demands are met by the state government.**

****27.5.2022:** The picketing organized by Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai in Lawngtlai Town was continued on 27.5.2022. However, the picketing organized in Bungtlang South village was called off w.e.f., 26.5.2022 @ 6:00 p.m. as the government issued an order for posting of 1 (one) doctor at Bungtlang 'S' PHC. So far, no report of any untoward incidents due to the stated picketing has been received. Information received stated that CYLA intends to continue the picketing till all their demands are met by the state government.**

****27.5.2022 :** Pi Vanramchhuangi, social activist (popularly known as 'Ruatfela Nu'), resorted to sit-in protest 'Silent Strike for Environment Justice in Mizoram' in front of the Office of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Department, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl on 30.5.2022. The sit-in protest was against environmental degradations and damage due to various developmental projects in Mizoram. She also submitted a written representation to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests demanding a stay order on the construction/widening of national highways works by the National Highway Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), which is affecting the ecology. The letter also alleged that forests and rivers are being destroyed indiscriminately by various projects, which is also wrecking the socio-economic dynamics of indigenous people. Pi Vanramchhuangi was joined by 4 (four) of her friends in the Sit-in protest which was called off on the same afternoon @ 3:00 p.m.**

**30.5.2022 :**

(a) NGO Co-ordination Committee (NGOCC) called a Press Conference on 30.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Aizawl Press Club. Pu R. Lalngheta, President, CYMA presided the press conference and 23 (twenty three) persons including 14 (fourteen) media persons attended. During the press conference, a press note was issued which stated the following:

 (i) NGOCC, a conglomerate of various NGOs within the state viz. CYMA, MUP, MHIP, MZP and MSU, has taken necessary action for deletion of Brus, who voluntarily settled in Tripura from the Mizoram Electoral Rolls and for proper demarcation of inter-state boundary.

 (ii) It considered non-consideration of the request of NGOCC for appointment of competent Mizo officer as Chief Secretary of Mizoram amidst availability of suitable Mizo officer for holding the said post as disregard of minority.

 (iii) A written petition regarding appointment of Mizo officer as Chief Secretary of the state was submitted to the Vice President of India, Prime Minister of India, Governor of Mizoram, Union Home Minister and Ministry of Home Affairs on several prior occasions. However, the same was not considered/prioritized.

 (iv) NGOCC did not oppose the present incumbent Chief Secretary personally. However, they considered the Central government's decision regarding appointment of Chief Secretary without paying heed to the state government and NGOCC request as difficult to accept.

 (v) It urged for appointment of suitable Mizo officer as Chief Secretary of the state as long as competent Mizo officers are available to hold the said post.

 (vi) A written memorandum was already submitted to Vice President, Prime Minister and Union Home Minister for separate All India Service Cadre for Mizoram.

 (vii) The NGOCC will continue to stand firm for the interest of Mizo nation.

 Leaders of NGOCC also stated their intention to organize an indefinite picketing of the Chief Secretary from attending her office 31.5.2022. They also stated that extreme measures may be needed to be taken, if the indefinite picketing bears no fruitful result.

 NGOCC held a meeting in connection with their intended picketing this evening @ 4:25 p.m. at CYMA Office, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl. Pu R. Lalngheta, President CYMA presided the meeting and 11 (eleven) members from CYMA, MZP, MSU and MUP attended. The meeting decided to organize picketing of Chief Secretary from attending her office w.e.f., 31.5.2022 @ 8:30 a.m. in front of MINECO, Khatla, Aizawl. Input received indicated that around 100 (one hundred) people are likely to participate in the picketing.

**30.5.2022 :**

Ref. to our DSI Part-X (b) Dt. 27.5.2022, Pi Vanramchhuangi, social activist (popularly known as 'Ruatfela Nu') continued her sit-in protest 'Silent Strike for Environment Justice in Mizoram' in front of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Department's office, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl on 27.5.2022. She was accompanied by 7 (seven) other persons and the sit-in was temporarily called off this afternoon @ 2:00 p.m. as authorities of Forest Department instructed concerned Divisional Forests Officers to conduct site verification of construction sites undertaken by NHIDCL and to submit their inspection report tomorrow i.e., 31.5.2022.

****6.6.2022 :** Pi Vanramchhuangi, Social Activist (popularly known as Ruatfela Nu) resorted to a sit-in demonstration in front of DC, Lunglei office on 6.6.2022 in protest against the alleged severe adverse impact of construction or widening of national highways work being undertaken by the National Highway Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) at various locations across the state on environment and rivers within the state. During the sit-in, Pi Vanramchhuangi stated that the Forest department has issued stay order in some areas in pursuance of their request and alleged the concerned DCs of not properly supervising the said construction work under their jurisdiction and only concerns for payment of compensation. She further stated that a complaint was filed to National Green Tribunal (NGT) in connection with alleged commission of environmental laws in the destruction of Tlawng river source. Thereafter, Lunglei Thalai Pawl (LTP) submitted a written memorandum to DC, Lunglei wherein they requested the DC for his intervention in the alleged violation of environmental laws and to take necessary action so that developmental work and conservation of environment go hand in hand. The Sit-in protest was called off the same afternoon @ 12:20 p.m.**

****23.6.2022 :** Youth for Environment Justice Mizoram, Lunglei Thalai Pawl, Hnahthial Thalai Pawl and Saikhawpui Thalai Pawl submitted a written Joint Petition to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram on 23.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. which stated that National Highway and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) conducted Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in the year 2015 in connection with NH-54 (widening) Aizawl to Tuipang work and during this, all the residents of villages in between Aizawl to Tuipang, where Gram Sabha was held expressed their desire to protect the environment. It also highlighted various environmental damages and other damages caused by road construction works undertaken by the NHIDCL within the state. In this connection, it urged the Chief Minister to take necessary action for protection of environment within the state.**

 Thereafter, 15 (fifteen) members of Youth for Environment Justice Mizoram (YEJM) led by Pi Vanramchhuangi, Convener YEJM resorted to a Silent Strike in front of NHIDCL Office, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl demanding Virendra Jakhar, Executive Director, NHIDCL to tender an apology over the false statement that he has allegedly made in his DDK interview. The protesters displayed placards, which highlighted that development should go hand in hand with conservation, environmental justice etc. Executive Director, NHIDCL handed over apology statement to the protesters and subsequently, the Silent Strike was called off the same evening @ 5:10 p.m.

**13.7.2022:** Dt.13.7.2022, around 50 (fifty) members of MPYCC gathered in front of the main gate of New Secretariat Complex on 13.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. They displayed black flag and shouted slogans demanding the government to give compensation to the bereaved family of Pi Lalhriatpuii (a grape wine seller at Millenium Centre, whose wine worth Rs.22 lakhs were seized by the Excise Department). In case of failure to pay the compensation, they demanded for resignation of the Excise Minister. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President; Pu Siamkima, MPYCC GS and Pu K. Lalnunmawia, MPCC GS, delivered speeches in today's demonstration.

 Since they received no response from Dr. K. Beichhua, Excise Minister, they went back to Congress Bhavan @ 4:00 p.m. to discuss their further course of action. MPYCC Leaders also stated their intention to take further course of action.

 Police personnel were deployed at the area and no untoward incident occurred.

****13.7.2022 :** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawl Pawl (CPDLIP), a conglomerate of 21 (twenty one) commercial vehicle related associations in Champhai District, organized an indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without following the legal procedure w.e.f., on 13.7.2022 @ 6:00 a.m. In this connection, around 10 (ten) members of CPDLIP performed duty at Mualkawi (Zokhawthar road) and 8 (eight) members near Chalbawiha Junction, Khankawn Police Checkgate. Members of CPDLIP also performed duty in various villages, located near the Indo-Myanmar border in Champhai District. So far, 3 (three) vehicles carrying goods proceeding towards Aizawl were sent back from Chalbawiha Junction and there has been no report of any untoward incident.**

****13.7.2022:** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP), a conglomerate of 21 (twenty one) commercial vehicle related associations in Champhai District, continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without following the legal procedure on 14.7.2022. No report of any untoward incident has been received in this regard.**

****15.7.2022:** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) a conglomerate of 21 (twenty one) commercial vehicle related associations in Champhai District continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without following the legal procedure on 15.7.2022. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

****18.7.2022:** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without allegedly following the legal procedure 18.7.2022. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

**18.7.2022:******A Mass Procession was organized under the aegis of Joint Action Committee Tlabung in protest against the declaration of inhabited areas i.e., part of Tlangbung village along Khawthlang tuipui river as under Reverine Reserved Forest (RRF) on 16.7.2022. During the procession, leaders of JAC stated that the authorities were approached on many occasions to revoke the notification issued declaring their inhabited areas of Tlabung village as under RRF and their desire to continue their settlement in their village as they settled there since their forefathers. The procession started from Tlabung Bazar Bungkawn and they proceeded up to Hospital Tlang and dispersed the same day @ 12:20 p.m. without any untoward incident. Around 300 protesters participated in the procession. It may be mentioned that Tlabung VC area and part of Tlabung Zodin VC area are under RRF as per the existing notification.

**18.7.2022:******Dt. 15.7.2022, a sit-in demonstration was organized under the aegis of Joint Action Committee (JAC) Lungpuizawl village, Lunglei district on 18.7.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. in front of Lungpuizawl Forest Check Gate in demand for immediate revocation of a Stay Order prohibiting quarrying of stones from Lungpuizawl Quarry, issued by the Environment &amp; Forest Department. Pi Lalbiakthuami, Vice President VC, Lungpuizawl presided the demonstration and around 300 (three hundred) protesters participated. The sit-in demonstration was called off the same day @ 11:30 a.m. under peaceful atmosphere after passing the following resolutions:

 (i) The state government should administer their village as per the Village  Council status given by the Governor of Mizoram on 4.4.1997 and their  village's boundary description.

 (ii) The Stay Order issued 8.7.2022 against quarrying of stones should be  immediately withdrawn.

 (iii) Lungpuizawl Village Council should be conserved as per the Village  Council status given by the state government and the Forest Department  should not cause disturbance in future.

 3 (three) leaders of Lungpuizawl Village led by Pu Lalthathanga, VCP Lungpuizawl and Chairman Joint Action Committee proceeded to Aizawl today, i.e., 18.7.2022 to meet concerned authorities in connection with their demand. Information received stated that, an Inspection Team will conduct inspection of the RRF area tormorrow i.e., 19.7.2022 and thereafter, a meeting will be held with leaders of JAC Lungpuizawl village at DC, Lunglei Office.

****Dt. 19.7.2022** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without following the legal procedure on 19.7.2022 for the 7 (seventh) consecutive days. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

 In connection with their ongoing indefinite blockade, Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CDLIP) held a meeting on 19.7.2022 @ 11:30 a.m. at Mualkawi Community Hall, Champhai. Pu HC Liantluanga, President CDLIP presided the meeting and 35 (thirty five) members attended. The meeting after deliberate discussion resolved that the state government should give equal treatment to all goods in respect of maintaining the laws against them except illegal arms and narcotics items as all goods imported through Indo-Myanmar Trade are not following legal procedure.
 Further, upon invitation by DC, Champhai, leaders of CDLIP intend to meet DC, Champhai in connection with their ongoing indefinite blockade on 20.7.2022 @ 4:00 p.m.

**19.7.2022:** Lungpuizawl Village continued to close down Lungpuizawl Forest Checkgate on 19.7.2022. Information received stated that they intend to close down the stated Forest Checkgate until the stay order issued prohibiting quarrying of stones from Lungpuizawl quarry by EF&amp;CC Department has been revoked.

 In pursuance of Guwahati High Court order, Verification Team led by Pu RS Sinha IFS, Addl. PCCF, Mizoram conducted spot verification so as to verify whether there is any encroachment of Tlawng Hnar (Tlawng river source) RRF on 19.7.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. Pu PC. Lalchhandama, DFO Lunglei and Pu Salai Azyo, WPO Lunglei accompanied the Verification Team.
 Further, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu RS Sinha IFS, Addl. PCCF on @ 3:00 p.m. at Lunglei DC Conference Hall. The meeting was attended by leaders of Zobawk and Lungpuizawl VC; Joint Action Committee Lungpuizawl village, YMA, MHIP. During the meeting, leaders of Zobawk and Luipuizawl village informed the Verification Team that they considered LAD Park and the ongoing construction of Sport Complex as located outside Tlawng Hnar RRF.

****19.7.2022 :** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar without following the legal procedure on 19.7.2022 for the 7 (seventh) consecutive days. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

 In connection with their ongoing indefinite blockade, Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CDLIP) held a meeting on 19.7.2022 @ 11:30 a.m. at Mualkawi Community Hall, Champhai. Pu HC Liantluanga, President CDLIP presided the meeting and 35 (thirty five) members attended. The meeting after deliberate discussion resolved that the state government should give equal treatment to all goods in respect of maintaining the laws against them except illegal arms and narcotics items as all goods imported through Indo-Myanmar Trade are not following legal procedure.
 Further, upon invitation by DC, Champhai, leaders of CDLIP intend to meet DC, Champhai in connection with their ongoing indefinite blockade on 20.7.2022 @ 4:00 p.m.

**19.7.2022:** JAC Lungpuizawl Village continued to close down Lungpuizawl Forest Checkgate on 19.7.2022. Information received stated that they intend to close down the stated Forest Checkgate until the stay order issued prohibiting quarrying of stones from Lungpuizawl quarry by EF&amp;CC Department has been revoked.

 In pursuance of Guwahati High Court order, Verification Team led by Pu RS Sinha IFS, Addl. PCCF, Mizoram conducted spot verification so as to verify whether there is any encroachment of Tlawng Hnar (Tlawng river source) RRF on 19.7.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. Pu PC. Lalchhandama, DFO Lunglei and Pu Salai Azyo, WPO Lunglei accompanied the Verification Team.
 Further, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu RS Sinha IFS, Addl. PCCF on @ 3:00 p.m. at Lunglei DC Conference Hall. The meeting was attended by leaders of Zobawk and Lungpuizawl VC; Joint Action Committee Lungpuizawl village, YMA, MHIP. During the meeting, leaders of Zobawk and Luipuizawl village informed the Verification Team that they considered LAD Park and the ongoing construction of Sport Complex as located outside Tlawng Hnar RRF.

****20.7.2022 :** (a) Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar, allegedly without following the legal procedure, on 20.7.2022 for the 8th (eight) consecutive days. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

 In connection with their ongoing indefinite blockade, leaders of CPDLIP met DC, Champhai on 20.7.2022 @ 4:00 p.m. at the latter's office chamber. The meeting is still continuing at the time of writing the report.
 (b) JAC Lungpuizawl Village continued to close down Lungpuizawl Forest Checkgate on 20.7.2022.

****21.7.2022 :** (a) Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) continued their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar, allegedly without following the legal procedure on 21.7.2022 for the 9th (ninth) consecutive days. In this connection, no report of any untoward incident has been received.**

 A meeting was held on 20.7.2022 @ 4:00 p.m. in which leaders of CDLIP requested DC, Champhai to take necessary action so as to allow transportation of dry areca nuts, which are presently lying at various godowns of Champhai. In connection with their request, DC, Champhai assured to convey the matter to the state government.

 (b) JAC Lungpuizawl Village continued to close down Lungpuizawl Forest Checkgate on 21.7.2022.

**22.7.2022:** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CPDLIP) in its Press Release issued on 21.7.2022 stated that their ongoing indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar, allegedly without following the legal procedure will be enforced upto 25.7.2022 @ 6:00 a.m. It also stated the following:

 (i) Expressed gratitude for the support rendered by the general public in  connection with their initiative taken against import of illegal goods.

 (ii) Expressed gratitude for the support rendered by residents of Champhai  District and the people of Mizoram in their ongoing indefinite blockade.

 (iii) An individual or associations other than law enforcement agencies  should not interfere in view of the benefit received by Champhai District  owing to its strategic location. Necessary severe action will be taken, if  the situation recurs in future.

**25.7.2022 :** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawl Pawl (CPDLIP) temporarily called off their indefinite blockade of all goods imported from Myanmar, allegedly without following the legal procedure w.e.f. 23.7.2022 @ 6:00 p.m.

****01.8.2022 :** All NGOs Committee Khawruhlian in its 'Statement' issued on 31.7.2022 stated that All NGO Committee, Khawruhlian village has requested the state government and authority of PWD through a Press Release issued on 12.7.2022 to take necessary action so as to make NH-150 plyable for all vehicles before the end of July, 2022 in view of the difficulties being faced due to landslide triggered by newly constructed double lane national highway below their village. It also expressed their disappointment over the State government for not paying any heed on their demand, and such being the case and as per the decision of All NGO Committee held on 12.7.2022 they intend to organize blockade of NH-150 (double lane) road near Khawruhlian village, Aizawl District w.e.f., 1.8.2022 @ 5:00 a.m.**

 In pursuance of the above, Khawruhlian All NGOs organized blockade of NH-150 road near Khawruhlian village w.e.f., 1.8.2022 @ 5:00 a.m. and around 400 (four hundred) protesters participated.

 In this connection, Addl. DC, Aizawl; authorities of PWD and Khawruhlian All NGO held a meeting today and during the meeting, representatives of the State government assured to take possible necessary action on the demand of All NGOs Committee Khawruhlian village. Subsequently, the road blockade was called off this afternoon @ 1:45 p.m.

****02.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized Picketing in front of the office of Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Babutlang, Aizawl 2.8.2022 @ 8:00 a.m. to prevent Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) from attending office. Around 30 (thirty) protesters participated and they displayed banner highlighting their opposition to re-employment of any government employees. The picketing was called off the same morning @ 11:00 a.m. as Pu Lalrinsanga availed casual leave.**

 In connection with the above, MZP General Headquarters Emergency Executive Meeting was held today @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu President MZP presided the meeting and 31 (thirty one) members attended. The meeting decided the following:

 (i) To organize picketing to prevent Registrar of Cooperative Societies  (RCS) from attending office on 5.8.2022.

 (ii) To organize picketing to prevent Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister   Cooperation Department from attending office on 8.8.2022.

 A Press Release regarding the above mentioned meeting was issued today.

 In connection with MZP ongoing protest, Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister Cooperation held a meeting with 6 (six) leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP today @ 3:00 a.m. at his Office Chamber. During the meeting, the Minister requested leaders of MZP to cancel their ongoing protest and at the same time, leaders of MZP also urged the Minister to cancel re-employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS). The meeting yields no conclusive result.

****3.8.2022 :** (a) Chithar and parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar, Lunglei District continued picketing to prevent teachers of Chithar Govt. Middle School from attending office/school on 3.8.2022. It may also be mentioned that 12 (twelve) students are presently studying at Chithar Govt. Middle School.**

(b) All NGOs, VC Vaisam and parents of students of Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School continued to close down all Schools located in Vaisam village, Lunglei District on 1.8.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam. It may be mentioned that the numbers of students in each school within Vaisam village are as follows:

 RMSA Secondary school, Vaisam  - 5 (five) students.

 Govt. Middle School, Vaisam - 25 (twenty five) students.

 Govt. Primary School, Vaisam - 41 (forty one) students.

**3.8.2022 :** (a) Joint Action Committee on Serchhip District Hospital Site in its Press Release issued on 3.8.2022 stated the following:

 (i) It urged for immediate commencement of construction of Hospital  Building at the existing Serchhip District Hospital site as fund  amounting to Rs.21 crores was sanctioned for construction of building at  the existing site.

 (ii) It urged for construction of Hospital Building at the existing site as the  same will be easily accessible by the general public.

 (iii) The existing Hospital site is also conveniently accessible from other  villages.

 (iv) It would be difficult for the State government to meet the estimated cost  for construction of other infrastructures amounting to Rs.30 crores, if the  new Hospital Building is constructed at Bukpui.

(b) (a) Dt. 3.8.2022 JAC, Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar Lunglei District continued their picketing to prevent teachers of Chithar Govt. Middle School from attending office/school on 4.8.2022.

(c) (b) Dt. 3.8.2022, All NGOs, VC Vaisam and Parents of students of Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School continued to close down all Schools located in Vaisam village, Lunglei District on 4.8.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam.

****4.8.2022 :** (a) Dt. 2.8.2022, information received stated that Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters is intending to organize picketing of the Office of the Registrar, Mizoram Cooperatives Societies on 5.8.2022 as no positive response has been received on their demand for cancellation of Re-employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS).**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued today, i.e., 4.8.2022 stated that Felicitation Function of successful Students' Union Leaders and Ethnic based Students' Leaders was held on 4.8.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at BS Farm, Aizawl. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function and Pu Lalrinsanga Ralte, Serlui constituency MLA graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalrinsanga Ralte stated that education is the best weapon for protection of the nation, and he also encouraged all the newly passed students to pursue higher studies with a clear purpose. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP also delivered a speech and 69 (sixty nine) persons from College Students' Union, MZP General Headquarters and Ethnic Based Students Leaders who have recently passed their exams were felicitated in the function.

**5.8.2022 :******(a) Chawngte Joint NGOs consisting of Group YMA, Central Young Chakma Association and Mizoram Chakma Students' Union held a Joint Meeting last evening i.e., 4.8.2022 @ 7:00 p.m. Pu ZD Ramngamzauva, President Group YMA presided the meeting and 16 (sixteen) members attended. The meeting after deliberate discussion decided to organize Procession on 8.8.2022 as their various demands made to the Chief Minister on 21.7.2022 have not been fulfilled till date, which are as follow:

 (i) The state government should post regular Doctor at CHC (Community  Health Centre) Chawngte, Lawngtlai District as there has been no  regular Doctor in the said CHC.

 (ii) Regular staff should be posted at SDO (C) Chawngte as there has been  no regular staff in the said office.

 (iii) Separate Officers for SDO (C), Chawngte and BDO, Chawngte should  be posted.

 (iv) Women Police should be posted at Chawngte Police Station.

(b) Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar, Lunglei District continued picketing to prevent teachers of Chithar Govt. Middle School from attending office/school on 5.8.2022.

(c) All NGOs, VC Vaisam and Parents of students of Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School continued to close down all Schools located in Vaisam village, Lunglei District on 5.8.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam.

****8.8.2022 :** A 'Peaceful Procession' was held on 8.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. under the aegis of Chawngte Joint NGOs consisting of Group YMA, Central Young Chakma Association and Mizoram Chakma Students' Union. Around 400 (four hundred) persons participated in the said Procession. The Procession started from Chawngte 'L' and proceeded up to SDO (C) Chawngte Office. During the procession, Pu ZD Ramngamzauva, President Chawngte Group YMA and Pu Joytirmoy Chakma, President Central Young Chakma Association (CYLA) delivered speeches. They submitted a written Joint Memorandum to the Chief Minister of Mizoram through SDO (C) Chawngte, wherein they stated that their various standing demands, such as posting of regular government employee Doctor and X-ray Technician at CHC Chawngte; Elevation of P&amp;E Chawngte Section to Sub-Division level; posting of women Police and other staff at Chawngte Police Station and to post regular staff at SDO(C) Chawngte Office, etc. and it urged the Chief Minister to fulfil the above demands before the end of 14.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon and necessary action will be taken, if the State government fails to fulfil their demand within the stipulated time. After submission of a Joint Written Memorandum, the crowd dispersed under peaceful atmosphere today's afternoon @ 1:30 p.m.**

 Input received stated that they intend to boycott the upcoming Independence Day Celebration at Chawngte in case of no positive response from the State government on their demands.

(b) Tlabung Commercial Vehicles Joint Action Committee Meeting held on the evening of Dt. 6.8.2022 decided to organize Road Blockade at Tlabung town w.e.f., 10.8.2022 as the Contractor i.e., SRK Construction (who executed road widening work) failed to repair the extremely dilapidated road portions in between Tlabung and Lunglei, which was triggered by road widening work of NH-302.

****8.8.2022 :** (a) Joint Action Committee on Inner Line Reserved Forest Demand (JAC on ILRFD) in its Press Release issued on 8.8.2022 requested the representatives of Mizoram government to stand firm on BEFR 1875 inter-state boundary, which was unanimously accepted by various NGOs, Political Parties and the general public, and to take necessary action so as to merge Thangram area under Assam with Mizoram in the upcoming visit of representatives of Assam government to Mizoram for border talk. It also urged Assam government to immediately stop its encroachment by way of declaration of Wild Life Sanctuary within the inner Line Forest area. It further urged the Central government to withdraw the force deployed within Mizoram on the pretext of maintenance of status quo. It also urged Assam government to immediately hand over Inner Line Reserved Forest 509 Square Miles and Thangram area to Mizoram.**
(b) Information received stated that Joint VC &amp; YMA of Saikhawthlir and Chuhvel village, Mamit District intend to organize blockade of Load Carrying vehicles, if the State government fails to fulfil their demand to prescribe and enforce 'load limit' for vehicles plying in between Zamuang to Bairabi road during this monsoon season before the end of 9.8.2022. In this connection, they had submitted a written petition to DC, Mamit on 16.6.2022 with a request to take necessary action to issue order prescribing the load limit for vehicles plying in the stated road.

(c) Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar Lunglei District continued picketing to prevent teachers of Chithar Govt. Middle School from attending office/school on 8.8.2022.

(d) All NGOs, VC Vaisam and Parents of students of Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School continued to close down all Schools located in Vaisam village, Lunglei District on 8.8.2022 in demand of immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam.

****10.8.2022 :**  (a) Authorities of School Education Department led by Pu L. Lalramliana, Dy DPC (Samagra), Lunglei held a meeting with JAC, Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar Lunglei District on 9.8.2022 at the residence of Pu Larchhuakmawia, VCP Chithar in connection with their ongoing demand for transfer out of all erring teachers of Govt. Middle School, Chithar and posting of their replacement. During the meeting, leaders of School Education Department requested leaders of the village to call off their ongoing Picketing and assured to convey their demand to the higher authorities. In view of the above, leaders of Chithar village decided to call off Picketing of Chithar Govt. Middle School w.e.f., 10.8.2022. However, JAC, Chithar and Parents of students of Chithar Middle School, Chithar resolved to await the state government response till 22.8.2022 in connection with their demand and urged the state government to transfer out all erring teachers of Govt. Middle School Chithar before the end of August, 2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**
(b) Authorities of School Education Department led by Pu L. Lalramliana, Dy DPC (Samagra), Lunglei held a meeting with leaders of VC Vaisam and YMA Vaisam on 9.8.2022 at the residence of VCP Vaisam, in connection with their ongoing demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers to Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam. During the meeting, leaders of School Education Department assured that possible necessary action will be taken on their demand and requested them to call off their agitation. On careful deliberation of the request, leaders of Vaisam village decided to temporarily call off their agitation w.e.f., 10.8.2022. Further, they decided to close down Vaisam Middle School and RMSA Secondary School, Vaisam, again if the state government fails to take positive action on their demand before the end of August, 2022.

****16.8.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Extended OB Meeting was held on16.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 12 (twelve) members attended. The meeting decided to organize Sit-in Protest at MZP Conference Hall on 17.8.2022 in pursuance of NESO call for North East State-wide Protest in demand for grant of relief to Myanmar refugees, who are taking shelter within the north-eastern states. It also stated in the meeting that MZP members, NESO Council Members and MZP Executive Committee members are expected to participate in the said Sit-in Protest.**

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District organized picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 16.8.2022 as no positive response has been received in connection with their demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year), both from Lungsen Govt. High School. At the same time, teachers of the said school were allowed to attend the school and 9 (nine) members of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen led by President Lalpekhlua participated in the picketing. It may be mentioned that presently, there are 59 (fifty nine) students (Class IX - 36; Class X - 23) in the stated school.

**18.8.2022 :** MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 18.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School. Information received stated that leaders of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District intend to take more severe action, if their ongoing agitation bears no positive result.

**19.8.2022 :** (a) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 19.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School.

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi held Emergency Meeting on 19.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office, Bairabi. Pu C Lalngilneia, President MZP Sub-Headquarters presided the meeting and 4 (four) members attended. The meeting expressed disappointment over issuance of Transfer Order of Pi Lalremruati, Rail Head UPS Hindi Teacher without replacement and decided to resort to road blockade for vehicle carrying essential commodities, if the state government fails to revoke or post her replacement before the end of 24.8.2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

 _It may be mentioned that if the said intended road blockade is organized, it may result in disruption of regular supply of rice to the rest of the state as Rail Station and Godown for bulk storage of rice are located in Bairabi village._

**22.8.2022 :** 2 (two) youths from Sihphir village named Francis Lalrintluanga (23) s/o Vanlalnghaka and Lalbiaksanga (24) s/o C. Lalsangzuala were physically assaulted by 5 (five) youths from Durtlang Leitan on 21.8.2022 @ 3:30 p.m. at Sakawrhmuituai Tlang. Upon learning the stated incident, residents of Shipphir gathered and apprehended the below mentioned 5 (five) accused persons, and detained at Sihphir VC House, Sihphir.

 (i) Richard Lalmuankima (18) s/o Lalthazuala (L)

 (ii) Lalduhsanga (18) s/o Lalramzauva Ralte (L)

 (iii) Vanlalrempuia (19) s/o Aichhunga

 (iv) Lalremmawia (21) s/o Lalremtluanga

 (v) Lallawmawma (20) s/o J. Lallianzuala.

 In connection with the stated incident, the two victims lodged FIR at Bawngkawn PS the same day. In pursuance of the FIR, Bawngkawn Police proceeded to Sihphir village to bring the accused to the PS for further necessary legal action. However, upon reaching Sihphir VC House, residents of Sihphir demanded written assurance letter for payment of all medical expenses incurred by victims before taking out of the detained accused. The 5 (five) detained accused were taken out by Bawnkawn Police after giving written assurance letter by Durtlang Leitan Branch YMA.

 However, while en-route to Bawngkawn PS, residents of Durtlang Leitan organized road blockade at Durtlang Leitan in demand for withdrawal of FIR and immediate release of the 5 (five) accused persons. The road blockade was called off around 4:00 a.m. and all the five accused persons were brought to Bawngkawn PS after leaders of Durtlang Leitan convinced the agitating members for taking necessary action to compromise the case. In this connection, Bawngkawn PS C/No. 599 Dt. 22.08.22 u/s 323/341/34 IPC has been registered.

****24.8.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi, Kolasib District considered receipt of only verbal report for cancellation of Transfer Order of Rail Head UPS Hindi Teacher Pi Lalremruati from the State government as inappropriate. It considered non-issuance of a formal cancellation of Transfer Order of the said teacher till date as disregard of residents of Bairabi village, Kolasib District. It reiterated that they will not allow issue of release order in respect of the said teacher from the school if the State government fails to cancel transfer order or post her replacement. In this connection, they decided to await the State government till 26.8.2022 and if no positive response is received within the stipulated time, they intend to organize road blockade of NH-154 for vehicle carrying essential commodities. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

 (b) Lungsen All NGOs Meeting was held on 23.8.2022 @ 7:30 p.m. at Lungsen Branch YMA Hall. Pu Lalpekhlua Punte, President MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen presided the meeting and 27 (twenty seven) members from YMA, MHIP and MUP attended the meeting. The meeting discussed the ongoing picketing of Lungsen Govt. High School organized by MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen in demand for cancellation of Transfer order of Science and Mathematics Teachers from the said school. The meeting constituted an NGO Co-ordination Committee under the chairmanship of Pu Lalpekhlua Punte so as to take more severe action on their demands, in case the situation demands. It decided not to attend a meeting to be convened today by DC, Lunglei in connection with their ongoing picketing due to transportation issues.

 Picketing of all schools within Lungsen village was continued on 24.8.2022. It may be mentioned that there are 2 (two) High Schools, 3 (three) Middle Schools including 1 (one) private school and 4 (four) Primary Schools including 1 (one) private school in Lungsen village.
****25.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools within Lungsen village on 25.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they decided to await the State government till 26.8.2022, and if the latter fails to take positive action on their demands within the stipulated time, it will take more severe measures including Total Bandh.**

**26.8.2022:** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools within Lungsen village on 26.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they intend to convene NGO Co-ordination Committee Meeting this evening to discuss their further course of action.

****29.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools and Govt. Offices within Lungsen village on 29.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Science and Mathematics Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they intend to resort to Total Bandh w.e.f., 30.8.2022, if no positive response has been received on their demand from the State government before the end of 29.8.2022.**

****30.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools and Govt. Offices within Lungsen village on 30.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Science and Mathematics Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. In this connection, Pu C. Lalthanzama, Addl. Director, School Education Department held a meeting with leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen today @ 10:00 a.m. at Lungsen Hmarveng YMA Hall. During the meeting, Pu C. Lalthanzama requested leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen to understand shortages of teachers under School Education Department and to call off their agitation. At the same time, leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen demanded assurance from the State government on their demand before calling off their agitation. Information received stated that NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen intends to convene a meeting this evening to discuss their course of action.**

**31.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen held a meeting in the evening of 30.8.2022 @ 7:30 p.m. to review the outcome of a meeting held the same day with Pu C. Lalthanzama, Addl. Director, School Education Department, in connection with their ongoing picketing. The meeting discussed the written assurance given by Pu C. Lalthanzama to take possible necessary action on their demand and it considered the same as reliable and decided to immediately call off their ongoing picketing of all schools and Govt. offices within Lungsen village.

**1.9.2022 :** Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students organized picketing RMSA School Vaisam and Govt. Middle School, Vaisam w.e.f 1.9.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers of the said schools. Information received stated that leaders of All NGOs and parents of students intend to continue picketing of the stated schools till transferring back of all attached out teachers of the said schools.

**2.9.2022 :** Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students organized picketing RMSA School Vaisam and Govt. Middle School, Vaisam w.e.f., 2.9.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers of the said schools.

****2.9.2022 :** Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students organized picketing RMSA School Vaisam and Govt. Middle School, Vaisam w.e.f., 2.9.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers of the said schools.Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students held a meeting on the afternoon of 4.9.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at the residence of Pu Chhawntluanga, Chairman All NGOs Vaisam. The meeting which was presided by Pu Chhawntluanga, Chairman, All NGOs Vaisam decided to call off picketing of RMSA School, Vaisam w.e.f., 5.9.2022 as Science Teacher for the said school has been engaged by Dr. K. Pachhunga, constituency MLA and Headmaster, RMSA School assured to arrange English teacher. At the same time, the meeting decided to continue to close down Govt. Middle School, Vaisam till fulfilment of their demand for transfer back of all attached out teachers. A Press Release in this regard was issued the same day.**

 In pursuance of the above meeting decision, Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students continued to close down Govt. Middle School, Vaisam on 5.9.2022.

****6.9.2022 :** Vaisam All NGOs and parents of students held a meeting on the evening i.e., 5.9.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. The meeting decided to temporarily call off picketing of Govt. Middle School Vaisam w.e.f., 6.9.2022 as Dr. K. Pachhunga, constituency MLA intended to take necessary action on their demand. The meeting also resolved that all attached out teachers of the said school should be transferred back to the school or arrange their replacement before the end of September, 2022, and picketing of the said school will be resumed, if the authority fails to fulfil the same.**

**28.9.2022 :** A sit-in demonstration was organized on 28.9.2022 @12:00 Noon in front of Vanapa Hall in connection with the death of a child named Naomi (2 years and 5 months) at Ebenezer Hospital, who was alleged to be the victim of sexual assault. Pu Lalchuailova of Bawngkawn led the demonstration and around 90 (ninety) peoples participated. During the sit-in demonstration, the protesters displayed placards, wherein they highlighted their demand for immediate arrest of the culprit, urged the authority not to ignore the case, demand of capital punishment of the rapist, etc.  The protesters also shouted slogans demanding immediate arrest of the culprit(s), the need to take care of a child etc. Pi Vanramchhuangi @ Ruatfela Nu, Social Activist delivered a speech and the protesters dispersed under peaceful atmosphere this afternoon @ 1:15 pm.
**6.10.2022 :** All NGOs Committee continued picketing of Govt. Middle School Vaisam so as to prevent students and teachers from attending classes on 6.10.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers. It may be mentioned that 4 (four) Teachers out of 7 (seven) teachers of Govt. Middle School Vaisam were attached to other schools.

**7.10.2022 :** All NGOs Committee continued picketing of Govt. Middle School Vaisam, Lunglei District so as to prevent students and teachers from attending classes on 7.10.2022 in demand for immediate transfer back of all attached out teachers.

**10.10.2022:** All NGO Vaisam and parents of students held a meeting at the residence of Pu Zothansiama, Secretary, MUP Vaisam. Pu Chhawntluanga, President, Br.YMA Vaisam presided the meeting and after deliberate discussion on their ongoing picketing of Govt. Middle School, Vaisam, the meeting decided to call off the picketing w.e.f., 10.10.2022. It also decided to make a request to VC to recruit one qualified teacher from MNREGS fund.

****13.10.2022 :** On 13.10.2022 @9:00 am, Rickshaw Owners Association Lawngtlai resumed picketing of District Transport Office so as to prevent the staff from attending office in protest against the recent issuance of auto Rickshaw permit for Lawngtlai town. Leaders of Rickshaw owners alleged that congested Lawngtlai town had already been a problem for auto rickshaw drivers and the recent issuance of new permits would add to the woes of its members who were already struggling to earn their livelihood.**

 Members of Rickshaw owners held a meeting at the courtyard of DTO Office Lawngtlai today @11:00 am wherein they resolved that if the newly issued permits are not cancelled, from tomorrow onwards they would resort to picketing of DTO, Lawngtlai Office and DC office. The meeting was attended by 180 members.

 It may be mentioned that Rickshaw Owners Association Lawngtlai had started picketing against staff of DTO since yesterday i.e., dt.12.10.22 @9:00 am in protest against issuance of new Auto Rickshaw Permits and demand for cancellation of the same.

****14.10.2022 :** Lawngtlai Auto Rickshaw Owners Association (LAROA) continued picketing of DTO Office, Lawngtlai on Dt. 14.10.2022 @ 8:30 a.m. and around 50 (fifty) members participated in the picketing. In the meantime, they also organized picketing of DC Office, Lawngtlai and around 20 members participated.**

 In this connection, a meeting was held yesterday's evening @ 4:30 p.m. at the office chamber of Addl. DC, Lawngtlai and the meeting was attended by Addl. DC, leaders of LAROA and concerned department officials. The meeting reportedly ended without having any conclusive decision. After the meeting, leaders of LAROA decided to continue picketing of DTO Office Lawngtlai and DC, Office Lawngtlai w.e.f., 14.10.2022.

 In this regard, LOROA issued a Press Statement on 14.10.2022, wherein they highlighted their grievances and the reasons for conducting picketing of both of DTO &amp; DC Office, Lawngtlai. It also stated that the present numbers of Auto Rickshaw in Lawngtlai town were sufficient for the time being and if another additional 68 (sixty eight) permits are issued, the same will cause hardship in earning their livelihood. It further stated that they intend to continue their protest until their demands are fulfilled.
 Leaders of LOROA held a meeting todays afternoon @ 4:00 p.m. and the meeting decided to hold Executive Meeting this weekend to discuss their further course of action.

****17.10.2022 :** (a) Lawngtlai Auto Rickshaw Owners Association (LAROA) continued picketing of DC, Office, Lawngtlai; DTO Office, Lawngtlai and other important government offices in Lawngtlai town on 17.10.2022 in demand for cancellation of newly issued auto rickshaw permits. In this connection, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of DC, Lawngtlai today i.e., 17.10.2022 @ 12:00 Noon Circuit House, Lawngtlai. The meeting was attended by leaders of LAROA and concerned department officials. After deliberate discussion the meeting resolved the following:**

 (i) Rickshaw Permit issued to government employees should be cancelled.

 (ii) Rickshaw Permits sold to other should be cancelled.

 (iii) New Rickshaw Permit may not be issued within 5 years considering the  population of Lawngtlai town.

 Subsequently, after the meeting, the picketing was called off this afternoon @ 2:30 p.m.

(b) Siaha Auto Rickshaw Owners' Association (SAROA) organized picketing of DTO Office, Siaha on 17.10.2022 @ 9:30 a.m. in protest against issuance of 201 (two hundred one) new Auto Rickshaw Permits in Siaha District. In this connection, a meeting was held with leaders of SAROA at the office chamber of Additional DC, Siaha. The meeting, which was chaired by Addl. DC Siaha decided that the newly issued Auto Rickshaw permits will be scrutinized by SAROA so as to find out deserving permit holders and make a list of the same, which will be submitted to the DTO, Siaha for further submission to the government for consideration. After the meeting, the picketing was called off @ 11:30 a.m.
(c) Sub-Headquarters YMA, Lunglei held Executive Meeting on the evening of Dt. 14.10.2022 @ 7:00 p.m. at YMA Conference Hall, Lunglei. Pu Lalrotluanga, President, Lunglei YMA Sub-Headquarters presided the meeting and during the meeting, discussion was held on extremely dilapidated road condition of Aizawl - Thenzawl - Lunglei (ATL) Road. The meeting decided to organize 'No Vehicle Day' within Lunglei District on 18.10.2022 in between 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in demand for immediate repair of the said road. In this connection, a Press Release was issued by Sub-Headquarters YMA, Lunglei on 17.10.2022, wherein they requested the general public to refrain from using vehicle on that day except exempted government officials and essential service providers.
****18.10.2022 :** (a) Dt. 18.10.2022, 'No Vehicle Day' was observed within Lunglei District w.e.f., @ 6:00 a.m. today under the aegis of Sub-Headquarters YMA, Lunglei in demand for immediate repair of alleged extremely dilapidated road condition of Aizawl - Thenzawl - Lunglei (ATL) Road. Volunteers of YMA performed duties at various locations and the general public extended their support. There has been no report of any untoward incident and the same will be called off today's evening @ 5:00 p.m.**

(b) Joint NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen held a Meeting today, i.e., 18.10.2022 @ 7:30 a.m. at YMA Hall Lungsen, Lunglei District and the meeting after deliberate discussion decided to organise Total Bandh during 24-26.10.2022 as the state government has allegedly failed to post regular Mathematics and Science teachers at Govt. High School Lungsen till date despite approaching the higher authorities regarding the matter on numerous occasions. The meeting also decided to take severe action, if the above intended action bears no positive result. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****19.10.2022 :** MSU General Headquarters held Executive Meeting on the evening of 18.10.2022 @ 4:30 p.m. at MSU Office. Pu Samuel Zoramthanpuia presided the meeting and 17 (seventeen) members attended the meeting. The meeting decided to go ahead with their intention to organize Mass Procession on 20.10.2022, if no positive action is taken by the state government regarding their demand for stoppage of collection of revenue from college admission fee by the state government, before the scheduled date of Mass Procession i.e., 20.10.2022.**

 In this connection, 6 (six) leaders of MSU General Headquarters led by Pu Samuel Zoramthanpuia, President MSU met Chief Minister today @ 12:30 a.m. at the CM's office chamber and requested to finalize a proper schedule of meeting regarding their demand before the end of today. Thereafter, leaders of MSU General Headquarters reportedly met Pu C. Lalramzauva, Adviser to CM and they requested him to immediately finalize the time allotted for them to meet the Chief Minister tomorrow as they intends to hold a meeting to discuss their course of action the same evening.
 MSU General Headquarters held Emergency Meeting on 19.10.2022 @ 3:30 p.m. at MSU Office. Pu Samuel Zoramthanpuia, President MSU presided the meeting and 40 (forty) members attended. The meeting resolved to gather at High Field, Mc Donald Hill, Zarkawt on 20.10.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. so as to await the meeting outcome with the Chief Minister scheduled to be held the same day @ 11:00 a.m. at Chief Minister Office in connection with their demand for stoppage of collection of revenue from college admission fee by the state government.

****20.10.2022 :** MSU General Headquarters organised protest gathering on 20.10.2022 w.e.f., 10:00 a.m. in front of Vanapa Hall, Aizawl. MSU had demanded stoppage of collection of revenue from College Admission Fees by Government of Mizoram. As many as 2000 students gathered and they wait for the outcome of the meeting held at the office chamber of Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Hon'ble Minister, Higher &amp; Technical Education, etc. with officials from H&amp;TE, Government Principals, leaders of MSU, etc. with regard to the demand made by MSU. 5 (five) office bearers of MSU led by the Vice President attended the meeting. After the meeting is over, leaders of MSU went to Chief Minister's Office to pursue the concern meeting file. As the file has not reached Chief Minister's office from State Secretariat by 1:30 p.m., the gathering Students conducted procession from Vanapa Hall till Mc Donald Hill, Zarkawt to pressurise immediate movement of the meeting file. The said file have reached CMO at 4:30 p.m., and subsequent to this, leaders of MSU led by their President, Pu Samuel Zoramthanpuia went to meet the Chief Minister. The Hon'ble Chief Minister reportedly gave consent of the meeting minute by giving his signature. Consequence upon this, MSU has called off their protest gathering @ 5:10 p.m. this evening.**

**25.10.2022:** (a) On 24.10.22 @11:30 a.m., a meeting was held under the chairmanship of DC, Kolasib at DC Conference Hall, Kolasib in connection with NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association intention to organize indefinite road blockade of NH-306 at Pi Lalhmingliani's farm about 13 kms from Vairengte towards Aizawl w.e.f., 5.10.2022 in demand for immediate payment of land compensation of the proposed extension project of NH-6 &amp; NH-306. The meeting was attended by leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association and concerned government officials. During the meeting, DC, Kolasib requested leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association to cancel their intention to organize indefinite road blockade and he also assured to take possible necessary action on their demand. After the meeting, leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association considered the request of DC, Kolasib and decided to await the concerned authority regarding payment of compensation upto 31.10.2022.

(b) Lungsen NGO Coordination Committee enforced Total Bandh within Lungsen village, Lunglei District on 24.10.22 so as to put pressure to the state government in their ongoing demand for cancellation of transfer of Mathematics and Science teachers from Govt. High School, Lungsen. Volunteers of Lungsen NGO Coordination Committee performed duties at 6 (six) different locations at the outskirt of Lungsen village towards Lunglei and Tlabung. They intended to organize Total Band during 24th to 26th October, 2022. However, the Total Bandh was called off the same evening @ 5:30 p.m. as a positive response has been received regarding their demand from Director of School Education, and they intend to meet Director of School Education at the earliest convenient time in Aizawl.

(e) YMA Sub-Headquarters, Lunglei in its Press Release issued on 25.10.2022 stated that Aizawl-Thenzawl-Lunglei (ATL) Road in between Ramlaitui and Lunglei which was constructed by Bhavya Construction Private Ltd. is presently in extremely dilapidated condition before the end of one monsoon season. In this connection, YMA Sub-Headquarters, Lunglei had approached the Chief Minister, MsLA from Lunglei and PWD authority for repair of the said road on different occasions. However, as there has been no positive action on their request, 18.10.2022 was declared as 'No Vehicle Day' and YMA Sub-Headquarters, Lunglei Executive Committee Meeting held on the evening of Dt. 24.10.2022 strongly condemned the concerned authority for their negligence and considered the same as disregard of the southern people. They decided to await the concerned authority upto 31.10.2022 for repair of the said road and if no action is taken within the stipulated time, they intend to take severe necessary action.

****28.10.2022:** Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Bial All NGOs held a Joint Meeting on 27.10.2022 at Kawrthah North YMA Hall. The meeting was attended by around 50 (fifty) members from Taitesena Group YMA, Langkaih Group YMA, Joint VC Hachhek Constituency, MHIP Zawlnuam Block 1, and MHIP Zawlnuam Block 2, HBKCP and representatives of areca nut grower from each village. The meeting, after deliberate discussion decided to organize indefinite Total Bandh within Hachhek Constituency w.e.f., 1.11.2022, if the state government fails to take positive action regarding their demand for settlement of the various difficulties being faced in transporting/selling locally harvested areca nut before the end of 31.10.2022 midnight. It also decided that all educational institutions, shops, government offices within Hachhek constituency should be closed during enforcement of Total Bandh. The meeting also demanded the state government to pay compensation amounting to Rs. 2750 lakhs, which is equivalent to the previous years' sales turnover from areca nut, in case the state government fails to take positive necessary action on their demand during the current financial year 2022-2023.**

****31.10.2022 :** (a) In continuation of our DSI Part-III (b) Dt. 28.10.2022, Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Bial All NGOs, VC held a Joint Meeting on 31.10.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at Kawrthah North YMA Hall. Pu Biakvullura, President, HBKCP presided the meeting and around 25 (twenty five) members from Taitesena Group YMA, Langkaih Group YMA, Joint VC Hachhek Constituency, MHIP Zawlnuam Block 1, and MHIP Zawlnuam Block 2, HBKCP and representatives of areca nut grower from each village attended. The meeting decided to take the following course of action as no positive action has been taken on their demand for settlement of the difficulties being faced in transporting locally harvested areca nut into Assam:**

 (i) Closedown (picketing) of all government offices within Hachhek  Assembly Constituency area during 1.11.2022 to 4.11.2022.

 (ii) Blockade of inter-state highway during 5.11.2022 to 8.11.2022

 They also decided to impose indefinite Total Bandh w.e.f., 9.11.2022, if no positive action on their demand is taken by the Government before the end of Dt. 8.11.2022.

(b) Reference to our DSI Part-III Dt. 25.10.2022, DC, Kolasib held a meeting with leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association on 31.10.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. in connection with their demand for immediate payment of land compensation of the proposed extension project of NH-6 &amp; NH-306. During the meeting, DC Kolasib apprised members present that NIHIDCL is reluctant to pay compensation before issuance of Forest Clearance. At the same time, he assured to take possible necessary action for payment of compensation on Crop and Material &amp; Structure Value on their land. Leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association expressed disappointment over direction issued for re-conduct of land valuation despite agreeing for payment of at least Crop and Material &amp; Structure Value on their land for the time being. The meeting was attended by 17 (seventeen) leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association led by their chairman Lalmalsawma Ngente and concerned officials. Input received stated that leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association decided to await the action to be taken by DC, Kolasib on their demand.


 It may be mentioned that NHIDCL sent a letter to Additional Deputy Commissioner/CALA on 29.10.2022 wherein they stated that Finance Division of NHIDCL objected for calculation of Land Value to the beneficiaries on Forest Land. As such, the land value cannot be paid to beneficiaries who are on the land which has been claimed by Forest Department. It also requested to resubmit 3G estimates by excluding the land value in the forest area.

 In connection with the above, leaders of NH-6 &amp; 306 Land Owners' Association expressed their desire for payment of Crop, Material value on their land for the time being and if the situation warrant, they may approach the Court for payment of compensation on their land value as they had possessed proper revenue pass issued by the state government on their land.

****1.11.2022:** (a) Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Assembly Constituency All NGOs started organizing picketing of all Government offices (excluding schools, hospitals, banks and public services under PHE &amp; Electricity department) w.e.f., on 1.11.2022 pressing for their demand of immediate settlement of the difficulties being faced in transporting/selling locally harvested areca nuts into Assam. All Government offices within Hachhek Assembly Constituency are closed and they intend to continue this picketing upto 4.11.2022. No untoward incident has been reported.**

 Leaders of Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Study Team, Langkaih &amp; Taitesena Group YMA led by Pu Vanlalruata Pachuau, Leader of Study Team met Shri. Kailash Choudhary, Union Minister of State for Agriculture today morning at Mamit. During the meeting, they apprised the Hon'ble Minister about the various difficulties being faced in selling of locally harvested areca nuts. They also informed him that they are facing problems in transportation of locally harvested areca nuts within Assam, due to frequent movement of illegally imported dry areca nuts. In this connection, they requested the intervention of the Hon'ble Union Minister of State for immediate settlement of their problem. Study Team, Langkaih &amp; Taitesena Group YMA also submitted a written petition to the Hon'ble Minister with a request to take necessary action on the problems, being faced by areca nuts growers within Hachhek Assembly Constituency.

(b) Land Owners' Association (Vairengte-Kawnpui Package 3-6 NH-06 &amp; 306) held a meeting yesterday evening (31.10.2022) at the residence of their Treasurer, Pi Zoliansangi at Electric Veng, Kolasib. After deliberate discussion, the meeting decided to organize blockade of NH-54 at the outskirt of Vairengte w.e.f., 3.11.2022 @ 6:00 a.m., to press for their demand of immediate payment of land compensation on the proposed widening of NH-06 &amp; 306. Information received indicates that they intend to block all vehicles carrying essential commodities, particularly oil and gas during enforcement of road blockade.

 Land Owners' Association (Vairengte-Kawnpui Package 3-6 NH-06 &amp; 306) issued a public notice this evening with regard to blockade of NH-54 as under:

 (a) Road blockade will be commenced on 3.11.2022 (Wednesday) @ 6:00  a.m.

 (b) All incoming vehicles from Assam and other States will be blocked.

 (c) All maxi cab and public transports vehicles plying inside Mizoram will  be exempted but inter-state service will be blocked.

 (d) All types of vehicles moving out from Mizoram will be fully exempted.

 (e) Exemption can be made on medical and other emergency cases.

****2.11.2022 :** (a) Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Assembly Constituency All NGOs continued picketing of all Government offices today, i.e., 2.11.2022 in demand for immediate settlement of the difficulties being faced in transporting/selling locally harvested areca nut into Assam. Activists of HBKCP and All NGOs performed picketing duties at different villages and all Government offices (except schools, hospitals, banks and public services under PHE and Electricity Department) within Hachhek Assembly Constituency are closed. Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Assembly Constituency All NGOs will continue the picketing till 4.11.2022, if no positive action on their demand is taken by the Government. No untoward incident has been reported.**

(b) Land Owners' Association (Vairengte-Kawnpui Package 3-6 NH-06 &amp; 306) is preparing to organize blockade of NH-54 (economic blockade) at the outskirt of Vairengte w.e.f., 3.11.2022 @ 6:00 a.m. to press the Government for immediate payment of land compensation. In this regard, as many as 50 (fifty) activists led by their leaders, Pu T. Lalrosanga, Chairman and Pu H. Lalrinawma, Secretary performed voluntary work at 2:00 p.m today. They cleared vegetation in and around Pi Lalramliani godown, about 13 kms from Vairengte towards Aizawl, where they intended to block the highway.

****3.11.2022 :** (a) Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Constituency All NGOs continued picketing of all Government offices on 3.11.2022 in demand for immediate settlement of the difficulties being faced in transporting/selling locally harvested areca nut into Assam. All Government offices, except schools, hospitals, banks and public services under PHE and Electricity Department within Hachhek Assembly Constituency are closed. No untoward incident has been reported.**

(b) Land Owners' Association of NH-6 &amp; 306 has started organizing indefinite road blockade of NH-54 (Economic blockade), the main economic lifeline of the state w.e.f., 3.11.2022 @ 6:00 a.m. at Pi R. Lalhmingliani's godown, which is about 13 kms from Vairengte towards Aizawl. The blockade has been made to pressurise the State Government for immediate payment of land compensation of the proposed extension project of NH-6 &amp; NH-306. As many as 321 (three hundred twenty one) members (Package 3 - 133 members, Package 4 - 51 members, Package 5 - 32 members and Package 6 - 105 members) activists of Land Owners' Association of NH-6 &amp; 306 performed duty at the road blockade. 4 (four) Trucks, 2 (two) - Medium Vehicles and 1 (one) - LPG Truck coming from Assam side are stranded due to the blockade at the time of writing the report while all the vehicles moving out from Mizoram are not block. No report of any untoward incident has been reported.

 Information received stated that 5 (five) representatives from each Package held a meeting this afternoon and the meeting decided to continue road blockade round the clock and entrusted members of Package 3 &amp; 4 to perform duty during night time.

****4.11.2022 :** (a) Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Hachhek Assembly Constituency All NGOs continued picketing of all Government offices on 4.11.2022 in demand for immediate settlement of the difficulties being faced in transporting/selling locally harvested areca nuts into Assam. Activists of HBKCP performed picketing duties and all Government offices (except schools, hospitals, banks and public services under PHE and Electricity Department) within Hachhek Assembly Constituency are closed. No untoward incident has been reported.**

 In connection with above picketing, Kanhmun Village Council, All Political Parties Kanhmun and All NGO's held a meeting today. Pu PC Lalremmawia, VCP Kanhmun presided the meeting and around 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting expressed their support of the ongoing picketing of Government offices within Hachhek Constituency, which has been organized by Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) and Joint YMA Taitesena &amp; Langkaih Group. However, after careful deliberation, the meeting do not support the intention of HBKCP and Joint YMA Taitesena &amp; Langkaih Group to organize blockade of road connecting the 3 (three) States i.e., Tripura, Assam and Mizoram during 5th to 8th November, 2022 considering the resultant instances caused by road blockade in the past. The meeting also decided to request the State Government to take necessary action immediately for settlement of the issues. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

(b) Land Owners' Association of NH-6 &amp; 306 continued road blockade of NH-54, the main economic lifeline of the State on 4.11.2022 at Pi R. Lalhmingliani's godown, which is about 13 kms from Vairengte towards Aizawl. As many as 292 (two hundred ninety two) activists of Land Owners' Association of NH-6 &amp; 306 performed duty at the road blockade. So far, 6 - Heavy Trucks, 1 - LPG Truck and 2 (two) light vehicles, which are proceeding from Assam are stranded due to the road blockade at the time of writing the report. No report of any untoward incident has been reported.

 In connection with the road blockade, Pu Lallawmawma, Addl. DC, Kolasib and concerned department officials held a meeting with 3 (three) leaders from each Package on 4.11.2022 @2:00 pm at SDO (Civil) Vairengte Conference Hall. During the meeting, the officials requested leaders of Land Owners' Association to call off the road blockade as the matter will be discussed in a meeting, which will be held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister on 7.11.2022 (Monday). However, leaders of Kolasib District Land Owners' Association rejected the request and decided to continue the road blockade.