**12.1.2022 :** 18 (eighteen) land owners having broom cultivation at Aitlang area, Kolasib district, whose farm lands are presently occupied by Assam Police, intended to meet Officer In-charge of Assam Police stationed at Aitlang in connection with harvesting of their broom grass on 12.1.2022. However, Officer In-charge of Assam Police at Aitlang informed them that the matter is beyond his purview and advised them to approach the higher authorities. In this regard, they made a verbal request to SDO (C), Vairengte to convey to DC, Kolasib to conduct a meeting with DC, Hailakandi within this week.

****21.1.2022 :** JAC on Inner Line Reserved Forest Demand (JAC on ILRFD) held a Meeting on 21.1.2022 @1:00 p.m. at MPC Office Building. Pu Lianzuala, President JAC on ILRFD presided the meeting and 6 (six) members attended. During the meeting, discussion was made on their future course of action regarding inter-state border.  In this connection, the meeting decided to submit a written memorandum to the Chief Minister. The meeting decided to organize Felicitation Function for Mizoram Police deployed at Vairengte, DC Mamit, DC Kolasib and other Police officials on 10.2.2022.**
**24.1.2022 :** JAC on Inner Line Reserved Forest Demand (JAC on ILRFD) submitted a written memorandum to Chief Minister of Mizoram on 24.1.2022 wherein they urged the Chief Minister to take necessary action so as to enable farmers of Aitlang and Buarchep to harvest their broom grass and betel nut from their farm lands. It also urged to include representative of JAC on ILRFD in any meeting held with representatives of Ministry of Home Affairs in connection with border issues. It further requested and urged the Chief Minister not to retract from 1875 Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation boundary as the same was approved by Council of Ministers led by him in 2019 and their stand in the Memorandum submitted to Prime Minister of India, which was signed by him. It also urged to take necessary action on the following points before 10.2.2022 :-

(i) To submit a written petition to Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate  Change, GOI and Assam government with a request to take necessary action  regarding handing over of administrative control of 509 square miles Inner  Line Reserved Forest to Mizoram Forest Department, which falls under  Mizoram territory as per 1875 Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation but presently  under the administrative control of Assam Forest Department.

(ii) To serve a written Notice to Assam government to pay accumulated revenue  tax liabilities from the stated Inner Line Reserved Forest land as the same has  not been paid since 1972.

****4.2.2022 :** A meeting was held on 4.2.2022 @ 3:30 p.m. at SDC Office, Bairabi, Kolasib District concerning Assam-Mizoram border. The meeting was attended by Dr. H. Lalthlangliana, DC, Kolasib; Pu Vanlalfaka Ralte, SP Kolasib; Pu Lalnunhlua, DC, Mamit District; Pu Zoramthara Addl. SP, Mamit District; Shri. Rohan Kumar Jha, DC, Hailakandi District, Assam; Shri. Gaurav Upadhyay, SP, Hailakandi District, Assam and other concerned officials. The meeting mainly discussed the issue of harvest of broom cultivation at Aitlang area and agreed that both Mizos and Non-Mizos having broom cultivation at the area should be allowed to harvest their brooms without any hindrance. Further necessary follow up action concerning collection of royalty on broom harvest is left at the hands of Forest Department Officials of both States.**
**8.2.2022 :** Information received stated that around 28 (twenty eight) hectares of forest areas were cleared for jhum cultivation at Zophai area (at around 1.2 kms east of Zophai BOP). Input received also stated that the above action was undertaken under the initiative of Bairabi North VC and about 40 hectares of forest areas are intended to be cleared for jhum cultivation. Bairabi North VC intended to allot the stated land to around 40 (forty) landless families within Bairabi village.

 In this connection, around 45 (forty five) Assam Police and Assam Forest staff visited the area on 8.2.2022 @ 10:50 a.m. and they left the area this afternoon @ 1:10 p.m. without any untoward incident. It may be mentioned that, workers engaged for clearing the forest were not present at the spot during the time of their visit.

**9.2.2022 :** (5) five leaders of NGO Coordination Committee led by Pu R. Lalngheta President CYMA visited police personnel performing border duty at Saipum, Kolasib district on 9.2.2022 @1:00 p.m. and handed over Silpaulin and financial assistance to them. They were accompanied by 14 (fourteen) leaders of All NGO Coordination Committee, Kolasib, including Pu Thomas D Engliana, President, Sub-Headquarters YMA, Kolasib.

**9.2.2022 :** Shri. Nripen Singh (50) s/o Diwan singh of Dholai, Cachar, Assam, who was an undertrial prisoner at Central Jail, Aizawl in connection with Sairang Police Station C/No. 3/22 Dt. 31.1.22 u/s 302 IPC, was found dead at Central Jail, Aizawl on the morning of 9.2.2022 @ 6:00 a.m. and the cause of death appears to be suicidal hanging. In this regard, Magisterial Enquiry is being conducted and the dead body will be handed over to Assam Police after conducting Post Mortem Examination and other formalities.

 In connection with the stated incident, authorities issued advisory to travellers who would be crossing Dholai area, Assam, about possible road blockade by members, relatives, sympathizers, etc of the deceased person. However, no report of road block or other untoward incident has been reported at the time of writing the report.

**9.2.2022:** The dead body of Shri. Nripen Singh (50) s/o Diwan Singh of Dholai, Cachar, Assam was handed over to Assam Police by Mizoram Police on 10.2.2022 @ 1:00 a.m. at CRPF Camp, in between Lailapur, Assam and Vairengte, Mizoram.

 In connection with the incident that occurred on 31.1.2022 @3:30 a.m., near Buichali, Sairang, Aizawl District, concerning the murder of Shri. K. Robin Singh (Driver of Oil Tanker B/R No. MZ-01 E-6373) by his handyman Nripen Singh (50) s/o Diwan Singh of Dholai, Cachar, Assam (later found dead inside Central Jail, Aizawl on 9.2.2022 due to suspected suicidal hanging), Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union submitted a written Memorandum to DC, Cachar and SP, Cachar on 9.2.2022 wherein they alleged that some culprits attacked the above stated Shri. K Robin Singh and his handyman Nripen Singh with sharp weapons on the fateful morning i.e., 31.1.2022 @ 2:30 a.m. at Baishaliguri Sairam (may be read as Buichali, Sairang), Mizoram. In this regard, they demanded immediate arrest of the culprits and payment of Rs. 50 lakhs ex-gratia compensation to both the deceased. It also urged them to take effective steps on the stated demands and they shall be bound to resort to agitation like road block, indefinite suspension of Oil services to Mizoram w.e.f. 9.2.2022. It further stated that they will not be held responsible for any untoward consequences on failure to fulfill their stated demands.
 Information received stated that the dead body of Nripen Singh reached Dholai, Assam this evening after conducting PME at Silchar Medical College, but the families of Nripen Singh refused to receive the dead body. Hence, the dead body is still in Ambulance at the time of writing the report. A large number of Assam Police are being deployed at the area due to the tense situation. Input received also stated that 1 (one) Mizoram registered Truck (owned by a person belonging to Meitei community and driven by a person belonging to the same community) was attacked with stones by a mob at Dholai, Assam this evening. However, as per input, the vehicle suffered no major damage and could manage to reach Mizoram.

****15.2.2022 :** NGO Co-Ordination Committee (NGOCC) Meeting was held on 15.2.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at CYMA Committee Room, Tuikhuahtlang, Aizawl. Pu R. Lalngheta President, Central Young Mizo Association (CYMA) presided the meeting and 18 (eighteen) members from CYMA, Mizoram Upa Pawl (MUP), Mizo Hmeichhe Insuihkhawm Pawl (MHIP), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) and Mizo Students' Union (MSU) attended. The meeting reviewed the recent visit of inter-state border duty post manned by Mizoram Police by leaders of NGOCC on 9.2.2022 and the meeting decided to undertake similar visit at a convenient time in the coming week.**

**23.2.2022:** 15 (fifteen) personnel of 225th CRPF, who are being deployed at Mizoram - Assam border as neutral force went to the house construction site of Pu R. Sangthanga, Vairengte near Vairengte Auto stand on 23.2.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and they instructed him not to continue his house construction, claiming that the area is within the disputed area. Upon learning the stated incident, leaders of Vairengte VC-I led by Pu Lalrammawia, VCP rushed to the spot and informed Pu R. Sangthanga of Vairengte to continue construction of his house.

 Information received stated that VC-I Vairengte allotted the said land to landless families of Vairengte and there are 14 (fourteen) under construction houses at the area and 3 (three) families already occupied their house, which were already completed construction at the area. In connection with construction of houses at the stated area, Commandant 147th Battalion CRPF submitted a written complaint to DC, Kolasib and SP, Kolasib on 22.2.2022.

**25.2.2022:** Thangram Indigenous People's Movement (TIPM) called a Press Conference on 25.2.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at Aizawl Press club. Pu J. Lalrinmawia, Financial Secretary, Thangram Indigenous People's Movement, presided over the meeting and 6 (six) persons including 4 (four) from Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) and 12 (twelve) media persons were present. During the Press Conference, a Press Statement was issued, which stated that TIPM was formed on 18.10.2020 as the people living in Thangram area (presently under Karimganj District, Assam) belongs to zo-ethnic community, viz. Hrangkhol, Chorei, Ranglong, Molsom, Kaipeng and Sakachep and are desirous to be under a single administration with other Mizos. It also stated that a written Memorandum with a prayer to merge Thangram area with Mizoram was submitted to Hon'ble Prime Minister of India on 10.12.2020. It further expressed gratitude to MZP for their continued support and appealed all NGOs, Political Parties, Churches, Mizoram government and every individual to support their ongoing movement for merger of Thangram area with Mizoram.

**28.2.2022**

(a) CRPF 147th Battalion deployed by Assam at Assam-Mizoram border visited house construction site near Vairengte Auto Stand on 26.2.2022 and informed owners of house under construction at the area not to continue their house construction as per the instruction of DIG, CRPF.

 In this connection, Pu Ramtharnghaka, SDPO Vairengte held a meeting with leaders of CRPF 147th Battalion led by Shri. Mahesh, Assistant Commandant on 28.2.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at CRPF 225th Battalion (deployed by Mizoram) Camp, Assam-Mizoram border. During the meeting, discussion was made regarding the instruction issued to owners of house under construction near Vairengte Auto Stand by CRPF 147th Battalion on 26.2.2022 and the meeting decided that construction of houses, situated near 225th Battalion of CRPF should be halted for the time being in order to avert possible tension.

(b) Leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee visited the following Mizoram Police place of deployment along the inter-state border on 26.2.2022 :-

 (i) Thinghlun BOP, Mamit District.

 (ii) Medili Bridge, near Kanhmun, Mamit District.

 (iii) Zophai BOP, near Bairabi, Kolasib District

 (iv) Phaisen, Kolasib District.

 (v) Vairengte Auto Stand, Kolasib District.

 During their visit, leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee handed over monetary assistance and face masks to Mizoram Police personnel, who are being deployed at the above memtioned border area.

As per input, the bridge constructed across Tlawngte River, situated in between Thinghlun, Mizoram and Kalagang, Assam, and around 1 km from Mizoram Police camp at Thinghlun, Mamit District, Mizoram, was reportedly burnt night, 24.2.2022 by some unknown miscreant(s).

**25.2.2022** Upon seeing the smokes emanating from the fire, Mizoram Police deployed at the area immediately rushed to the spot this morning @7:00 a.m. and by the time they arrived, half of the bridge was already burnt down. It is suspected that the bridge was burnt from the Assam side by using kerosene oil as an empty kerosene can was found at the spot. As per input, the said bridge was constructed inside Mizoram territory by the villagers of Kalagang, Assam. It was also learnt that the posts of the bridge at both ends were constructed with cement concrete some 7 (seven) years back and recently connected by using wooden poles and bamboos, and it serves as a route to Ronpur bazar (market), Hailakandi District, Assam.
 Upon learning the incident, SDO (civil), Kawrthah and SDPO, Kawrthah and party rushed to the spot to enquire into the matter today and necessary enquiry is underway. No untoward incident occurred at the time of writing the report and situation is under close watch.

**2.3.2022:** The bridge across Tlawngte river, situated in between Thinghlun, Mizoram and Kalagang, Assam, and around 1 km from Mizoram Police Camp at Thinghlun, Mamit District, Mizoram, which was burnt down on 24.2.2022 was repaired by members of Young Muslim Association, Kalagang, Assam on 26.2.2022 by using Bamboo and is now serviceable.

****10.3.2022 :** Joint Action Committee on Inner Line Reserved Forest Demand submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they alleged Assam Government of violating status quo within 1875 Inner Line Reserved Forest and destructing crops and MNREGS works along the inter-state border. In this connection, it appealed to invoke The Scheduled Castes and The Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and The Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights, 2007).**

****10.3.2022:**(a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a function on 10.3.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office to commemorate the sufferings of innocent students on 10.3.2018 due to border dispute. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the function and 17 (seventeen) members attended. During the function, it was highlighted that Zophai incident, which occurred on 10.3.2018, led the Indian government became aware about the disputed area and gave awareness to the general public about the inter-state border dispute. It expressed their desire for immediate settlement of the border dispute. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 with a request for immediate repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA).

**10.3.2022 :** A meeting was held on 10.3.2022 @ 4:30 p.m. at 225th Battalion CRPF Camp, Vairengte Auto Stand in connection with construction of residential houses near Vairengte Auto Stand. The meeting was attended by Pu Ramtharnghaka, SDPO Vairengte; Pu Lalrammawia Ralte, VCP, VC-I Vairengte; Pu Lalremsanga, Vairengte VC member and officials of 225th Battalion CRPF led by Shri. Nanda Kishore Kumar Singh, 2nd I/C, CRPF. During the meeting, leaders of Vairengte VC stated that construction of houses at the stated area have been carried out from the 1st Instalment money received from the Central Scheme (Housing Assistance) by beneficiaries and it could disrupt grant of 2nd Instalment, if the construction work is halted. At the same time, officials of CRPF stated that they objected construction of houses at the area due to pressure received from higher authorities. The meeting ended under cordial atmosphere.

**11.3.2022**

(a) On 11.3.2022 @ 1:00 p.m, 15 (fifteen) Assam Police and Forest Department personnel led by Shri. N. Lahan, OC, Ramnathpur PS, Assam, came to the farm house of Pu Laldinpuia Ralte, Ramthar Veng, Bairabi, which is located within Bairabi Tlawngkai Forest Reserve Area (around 400 metres west of Bairabi village, across Tlawng river) today, i.e.,. and instructed Pu Laldinpuia Ralte to dismantle his farm house. Upon learning the stated incident, Pu Vanlalmuana, SDC Bairabi and OC, Bairabi PS rushed to the area and held discussion with the Assam officials. After discussing the matter at length, Assam Officials left the area without any untoward incident.

(b) Shri. Shan Awas Khan, DIG, CRPF Silchar visited CRPF Camp at Assam-Mizoram border, near Vairengte Auto stand, on 11.3.2022 @ 12:00 Noon and held a meeting with leaders of Vairengte VC and Joint YMA Vairengte. He donated Solar Lamps to 30 (thirty) families, who are constructing residential houses under PMAY Scheme near Vairengte Auto Stand.

**15.3.2022:** On the afternoon of Dt14.3.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. 5 (five) Assam Forest Department and Assam Police personnel came again at the farm house of Pu Laldinpuia Ralte, Ramthar Veng, Bairabi, which is located within Bairabi Tlawngkai Forest Reserve Area (around 400 metres west of Bairabi village across Tlawng river). They informed Non-Mizo caretaker of the farm house to vacate the farm house before the same evening, and they will come again the same evening to verify whether they vacate or not. Subsequently, Assam police and forest personnel left the area. Upon learning the stated incident, OC, Bairabi PS and party rushed to the area and stationed at the area upto 10:30 p.m. the same evening. However, they left the area as no Assam Police personnel appear at the area. Information received also stated that Assam Police and Forest personnel have not appeared at the area on 15.3.2022.

**30.3.2022 :** Information received stated that 9 (nine) Assam Police and 7 (seven) Assam Forest personnel came upto near Zophai Boundary Duty Post, Bairabi, Kolasib District on 30.3.2022 @ 3:55 p.m. in connection with reported felling of trees by Bairabi VC and erection of electric Post inside Mizoram. However, Mizoram Police personnel on duty at the area denied their further entry inside Mizoram and they left the area the same evening @ 4:15 p.m. without any untoward incident.

**4.4.2022:** Information received stated that Assam continued construction of Bailey bridge connecting Pu Chalchhunga's farm land to Pu Lalnuntluanga's farm land across Saihapui river, Phainuam-Buarchep area, Kolasib District on 4.4.2022. The stated bridge construction work has been resumed w.e.f. 29.3.2022 which was halted after completion of its RCC foundation on 13.1.2022.

****7.4.2022 :** (a) NGO Coordination Committee held a meeting on 7.4.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at CYMA Committee Room, Tuikhuahtlang. Pu R. Lalngheta, President, CYMA presided the meeting and 10 (ten) members including representatives from Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Mizo Hmeichhe Insuihkhawm Pawl (MHIP) and CYMA attended. The meeting reviewed the recent visit of inter-state border by leaders of NGO Coordination Committee.**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 7.4.2022 which highlighted the visit of Zophai Bairabi and Phainuam-Buarchep yesterday by leaders of MZP. It considered Assam Government to have violated the status quo by constructing a Bailey bridge near Assam Duty Post within the disputed area and strongly condemned Assam Government for the same. At the same time, it urged Mizoram authority to resume construction of the unfinished Bridge at Zophai, Bairabi. It further stated that leaders of MZP led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President, MZP met PZoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram at the latter's Office Chamber today and offered various suggestions for conservation of the State border, and in this regard, the Chief Minister assured to look into the matter.

**6.5.2022 :** Information received stated that Pi Thangseii w/o Hlimlawma of Kawngthar veng, Vairengte, Kolasib district made a verbal complaint to Pu Nengthianlal, SDO (C), Vairengte on 6.5.2022 wherein she stated that their farm land at Mautui Zau area, which is located 7 kms east of Vairengte has been forcefully occupied by Assam Police since January, 2022 by constructing a duty post at the area. Further, when they tried to clear the site for cultivation of crops today, they were chased away by the Assam Police.

 In this connection, Pu Nengthianlal, SDO (C), Vairengte; H. Lunghnema, SDPO Vairengte along with 20 (twenty) IR personnel proceeded to the farmland of Pi Thangseii at Mautui Zau. Upon reaching the area, a short interaction was held with Mr. Manoj Baruah, Circle Inspector and SI Gopal Dev Nath, OC, Dholai PS, both Assam Police, who were present at the site. During the interaction, Pu Nengthianlal, SDO (C), Vairengte stated that farmers at the area should be allowed to cultivate their farmland and status quo should be maintained at the disputed area. He also stated that border issues are to be discussed by the higher authorities and no encroachment should be made on either side. He further requested Assam Police not to set up new camp at the area as it would amounts to violation of status quo. Mr. Manoj Baruah, Circle Inspector stated the particular land falls under Assam jurisdiction and as such, duty post was set up at the area. After discussing the matter at length, both parties dispersed the area without any definite conclusion. 

 In this regard, 1 (one) Section of 5th IR Bn. are being deployed as re-inforcement, in addition to 1 (one) section of PTS who are presently deployed at Mautui Zau area. They are briefed to be on high alert and immediately report any action taken by Assam Police in the area to higher authority.

 It is also learnt that concern Police authorities of both states, Kolasib and Cachar districts, are intending to have a joint spot visit of the area the next day i.e., 7.5.2022.

****6.5.2022:** Pu Neng Thianlal, SDO (Civil) Vairengte; Pu H. Lunghnema, SDPO, Vairengte and leaders of VC Vairengte led by Pu R. Lalfamkima, Chairman, Joint VC Vairengte visited the farmland of Pi Thangseii w/o Hlimlawma of Kawngthar veng, Vairengte at Mautuizau on 7.5.2022 and held meeting with authorities of Cachar District Police led by Shri. Pradeep Kumaran, Addl. SP, Cachar, Assam. During the meeting, both parties agreed to allow free movement of farmers in the area. In this regard, Assam Police demanded that farmers should carry their ID card for easy identification.**

 Information received also stated that Assam Police started site preparation for their new base Camp at Pu Kawngianga of Vairengte farmland which is located around 400 meters north from Pi Thangseii farmland, towards Pesnagar, Lailapur w.e.f 9.5.2022, as they have to vacate their present base camp i.e., Primary School Building located around 50 meters from Pi Thangseii farmland.

 It may be mentioned that in connection with the recent development that Assam deployed 9 (nine) additional Assam Police Armed Police at the area in addition to their existing deployment i.e., 6 (six) Assam Armed Police.

****9.6.2022 :** Dr. Hari Babu Kambhampati, Hon'ble Governor of Mizoram visited the inter-state border near Vairengte Auto-Stand on 9.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. He was received by Shri. Shah Nawas Khan, DIG CRPF Silchar and held a short interaction with authority of CRPF. He was accompanied by Pu H. Lalengmawia IAS, Home Secretary, Pu John LT Sanga, DC Kolasib and Pu Vanlalfaka Ralte SP Kolasib. The Governor left Vairengte for Serlui B Hydel project today's afternoon @ 2:00 p.m.**

**29.7.2022 :******As per input, Assam is undertaking road construction work at Aitlang Hnar (Upper Aitlang) area, near Vairengte, at Mizoram - Assam border. The work was reported to have been started around 1-2 week ago from Baluchari, Cachar district, Assam, reportedly to connect Assam Police Camp at Pu Darthanzauva farmland. The road construction has reached approximately 600 mtrs west of Assam Police Camp at Pu Darthanzauva's farm. Mizos having farms at the area are against the road construction and it was also reported that Pu Neng Thianlala, SDO (C), Vairengte, has informed the matter to concern higher authority. As per input, it will take around 3 (three) weeks for the road construction work to reach the said Assam Police Camp.
**01.8.2022:** Assam continued road construction work at Aitlang Hnar (Upper Aitlang), reportedly to connect Assam Police Camp at Pu Darthanzauva farmland on 1.8.2022.

 Information received also stated that Assam has recently started road construction work at Sabualmual, Middle Aitlang (Aitlangpui) area, near Vairengte, at Mizoram-Assam border. The construction was started from Bilaipur, Cachar district, Assam and it has reached Assam Police Camp No. 1 at Pu Vaikima of Vairengte Farmland. The construction work was halted today. It is reported that Assam Police is presently having 3 (three) Camps at Pu Vaikima's farmland and 1 (one) Camp at Lalliansanga (Kunga) farmland, which are all on the same hill range. Input received indicated that Assam intends to construct road connecting all their camps at the stated farmlands.

**02.8.2022:******Assam continued road construction work at Aitlang Hnar (Upper Aitlang), reportedly to connect Assam Police Camp at Pu Darthanzauva farmland 2.8.2022.

**3.8.2022:** Assam halted its road construction work at Aitlang Hnar (Upper Aitlang), near Vairengte, Mizoram-Assam border, on 3.8.2022.

**9.8.2022:** On 9.8.2022, a meeting on issues relating to the Assam-Mizoram interstate boundary dispute was held by representatives of Assam and Mizoram at Aijal Club , Aizawl. Delegates from Mizoram were led by Home Minister, Pu Lalchamliana while the Assam side were headed by Pu Atul Bora, Border Development &amp; Protection Minister. The meeting issued a joint statement which are as under -

i)  Both the states reaffirm the joint statement of 5th August 2021.

ii)  To minimise tension in and around the border areas, concerned district D.C of  both the states shall meet at least once in every two months.

iii)  Cultivators along the border of the two states shall be allowed to practice  farming.

iv)  Next round of meeting will be held in Guwahati during the month of October,  2022

(Front page of VANGLAINI/ The Aizawl Post newspapers Dt. 10.08.2022)

**8.8.2022 :** A meeting of delegates of Mizoram and Assam to discuss matters relating to Mizoram – Assam Boundary issues is scheduled to be held on 9.8.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. at Aijal Club.

**10.8.2022 :** A meeting of delegates of Mizoram led by Pu Lalchamliana, Home Minister and Assam led by Pu Atul Bora, Border Protection &amp; Development Minister, Assam was held on., 9.8.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. at Aijal Club. After the meeting, a Joint Statement was issued which stated the following:

 (i) Both the States reaffirm the Joint Statement of 5th August, 2021 in letter  and spirit.

 (ii) Both the states agreed to promote and maintain peace and to prevent any  untoward incident along the border and the Deputy Commissioners of  bordering districts of both states shall meet at least once in two months.

 (iii) Both the States agreed that economics activities including cultivation  and farming which have been practiced by people along the borders  shall not be disturbed but allowed to continue regardless of the  administrative control presently exercised by either State at such   location subject to Forest Regulations and after informing the concerned  Deputy Commissioners.

 (iv) High Level Meeting of Delegations of both States shall be held during  October, 2022 at Guwahati, Assam.

****23.8.222 :** A meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu John LT Sanga, DC Kolasib on 23.8.222 @ 11:00 a.m. at Kolasib DC Conference Hall in connection with the upcoming meeting of DC, Kolasib; DC, Cachar District; DC Karimganj and DC Hailakandi, scheduled to be held on 24.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Vairengte CRPF Camp, in pursuance of the decision of High Level Meeting of the two states viz., Mizoram and Assam. The meeting reviewed the preparedness for the said meeting and decided to hold discussion only on matters relating to difficulties being faced by farmers along the inter-state border and to avoid discussion on border issues. The meeting was attended by Pu Vanlalfaka Ralte, SP Kolasib, DFO Kolasib and concerned officials.**

**24.8.2022 :** Deputy Commissioner's Level Meeting of Bordering Districts of Mizoram and Assam was held on 24.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at 225 Bn. CRPF Camp, Vairengte following the Joint Statement issued by Ministers of both states viz., Mizoram and Assam on 9.8.2022. During the meeting, various issues were discussed and they resolved the following:

 (i) They agreed to propose to their respective State governments to ease out  the deployment of the police force, which at present are deployed  relatively close to each other. In the meantime, post commander of each  outpost may hold regular meeting/interaction with their counterparts  across the border as a step to build better relationship.

 (ii) In order to resume the economic activities of the farmers close to the  duty posts, a list of farmers may be prepared and exchanged between  both parties at the duty posts along the border, so that farmers having  agricultural land close to the duty posts can have access and resume   their cultivation subject to forest regulation.

 (iii) All the parties resolved to monitor and prevent further clearing of forests  for agricultural, road construction, house construction or any other  activities.

 (iv) A Joint spot verification will be conducted by officials from Mamit and  Karimganj districts to resolve the issue of RCC Bridge construction over  Tlawngte/Singla river near Kalagan/Zaite village.

 (v) Problems related to movement of locally grown areca nut via., Mamit  and Karimganj district to be raised at the State government level by both  the districts.

 (vi) Joint Verification programme will be organized for the police and forest  officials on smuggling of exotic animals and other contraband items by  the DFOs concerned.

 (vii) The next Deputy Commissioner Level Meeting is tentatively scheduled  to be held post October, 2022 after the next High Level delegation  meeting at Guwahati. However, a separate meeting is proposed for  districts sharing the same border at their own conveniences.

 

 The meeting was attended by DC and SP of Kolasib, Mamit, Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj District and other concerned officials.

****2.9.2022 :** Information received stated that leaders of Joint Group YMA (Langkaih and Taitesena Group YMA, Mamit District) Study Team met Shri. Himanta Biswa Sarma, Chief Minister of Assam at the latter's office chamber, Guwahati, Assam on 2.9.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. in connection with difficulties being faced in selling their locally harvested areca nut in Assam by areca nut growers in Hachhek constituency. It is reported that during the meeting, Chief Minister of Assam contacted over telephone to Chief Minister of Mizoram in connection with the issues and he also stated that it may be better to discuss the matter with Union Home Minister at Delhi. He further informed leaders of the Study Team to hold a meeting with DGP, Assam and concern intending buyers in Assam.**

****5.9.2022 :** Pu Vanlalruata Pachuau, Leader Joint Group YMA (Langkaih and Taitesena Group YMA, Mamit District) Study Team and Pu Lalvenhima Ralte, Secretary met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram on 5.9.2022 at the latter's office chamber in connection with transportation of locally harvested areca nut. During the meeting, discussion was made on the various difficulties faced by areca nut growers in Hachhek Constituency and necessary action taken on the same. The Chief Minister informed leaders of the Study Team that he intends to convey the expectation of Study Team regarding transportation of locally harvested areca nut in the Meeting of both states Chief Ministers i.e., Mizoram and Assam, which is scheduled to be held under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister.**

****9.9.2022 :** The 4th Boundary Committee was held on 9.9.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Conference Hall, Directorate of Forensic Science &amp; Laboratory, MINECO. Pu Tawnluia, Deputy Chief Minister presided the meeting and Pu Lalchamliana, Home Minister; Pu K. Lalrinliana, Supply Minister; Pu Lalruatkima, LR&amp;S Minister; Pu TJ Lalnuntluanga, E&amp;F Minister, Pi Manisha Saxena, i/c Chief Secretary and Pu Devesh Chandra Srivastava, DGP, Mizoram, representatives of MNF, ZPM, MZP, MHIP, MUP, JAC on ILRFD and concerned officials attended the meeting. The meeting reviewed the Joint Statement issued by representatives of Mizoram and Assam states on 9.8.2022, and discussion was held on Mizoram stands on inter-state boundary i.e., Inner Line of 1875. After detail discussion, the meeting decided that 'Approach Paper' prepared by State Boundary Committee should be used as a stand point in the upcoming meeting of representatives of Assam and Mizoram, which is scheduled to be held in October, 2022 at Guwahati, Assam.**

**21.9.2022 :** Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram and Pu Himanta Biswa Sharma, Chief Minister of Assam held a meeting to discuss relation of the two states on 21.9.2022 at Assam House, 1 Bordoloi Marg, New Delhi. The meeting was held in pursuance of the decision of Minister and official level meetings of the two states. During the meeting, smuggled/illegal import of dry areca nut via the two states was discussed and in this regard, it decided to take necessary action for stoppage of transportation of illegal import of dry areca nut. At the same time, it decided to allow free movement of harvested betelnut of Mizoram across both states. In this connection, Chief Minister of Assam assured to take necessary action. The meeting also discussed other important issues.

**23.9.2022:** Information received stated that on 23.9.2022, BRC (Badri Rai &amp; Company), Assam conducted spot verification for construction of new Assam Police Camp at Pu Ch. Chhunga (L) paddy field, which is located adjacent to the National Highway towards Assam side, about 2 (two) kms from Bairabi Border Police Check Gate and erected pillars (Red flag) for marking the Camp area in and around the said paddy field. It is also reported that the said Assam Police Camp construction process is being carried out by Assam Police Housing Corporation (APHC). Upon learning the said activities, OC, Bairabi and Party rushed to the spot and held interaction with the Managing Director, APHC, who was available at the site. After long deliberation, they decided that higher authorities of Mizoram and Assam should conduct meeting in this regard before commencement of construction of new Assam Police Camp in the area. It may also be mentioned that on 18.9.2022, Assam PWD, NH Division under the escort of Assam Police conducted survey of dilapidated NH-154 road within the disputed area for execution of repair work.
**3.10.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.10.2022 expressed disappointment over construction of 2 (two) makeshift camps at Zophai, Bairabi within the enforcement of Status Quo area. It also stated that upon learning the said activities, leaders of MZP proceeded to the area and insisted Assam government to dismantle the said makeshift camps. Accordingly, Assam dismantled the two makeshift camps today @ 12:30 pm. It also stated that they considered engaging in any activities within the disputed area by Assam as disregard of the Mizoram government and residents of Mizoram. It further urged Mizoram government to immediately take responsive action, in case such a situation arises in future. It expressed gratitude to Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister for taking prompt action and deployment of force at the area. It also appreciated the initiative taken by leaders of Bairabi village, and urged the Mizoram government to closely supervise any initiative taken by Assam government within the disputed border.

**3.10.2022 :** Information received stated that on the evening of Dt. 2.10.2022, labourers from Assam reportedly working under Assam Police Housing Corporation had constructed 2 (two) Makeshift Camps using bamboo at the disputed Zophai border area adjacent to Pu Ch.Chhunga (L) paddy field near the National Highway NH-154, which is about 2 kms from Bairabi border Police Check Gate towards Assam side.

 Upon learning the said activities, 12 (twelve) leaders of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters led by Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP proceeded to Bairabi the same evening. In this connection, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters issued a Press Release on the evening of Dt. 2.10.2022 wherein it strongly condemned construction of the said makeshift camps amidst necessary action being taken by both the states viz. Mizoram and Assam for solving the border issues. It also informed all members of MZP to be ready for community work to dismantle the said makeshift camps. It further urged Mizoram government to take prompt action and also insisted Assam government to immediately dismantle the said makeshift camp. It further stated that if the makeshift camp is not immediately dismantled, MZP intends to organize 'Zo-Hnam Hnatlang' (Mass Community Work), to dismantle the said makeshift camp.

__In connection with the above incident, Bairabi Joint Village Council also convened a meeting this morning, i.e. 3.10.2022 @7:30 am at Bairabi South VC Office. Pu R. Lalrinawma, Chairman, Bairabi Joint VC chaired the meeting and around 15 (fifteen) members attended. The meeting deliberated upon action plan against construction of makeshift camp by Assam and they decided to convene Emergency Joint Meeting with NGOs.

 Consequence upon the decision of Bairabi Joint Village Council meeting, Emergency Joint Meeting was convened today @10:00 am at Bairabi North Village Council Bhavan. As many as 20 leaders from Bairabi North &amp; South Branch YMAs, MZP and MSU Sub-Headquarters Bairabi, MUP and MHIP Branches of Bairabi North &amp; South, Joint YMA and Zampuimanga Group YMA attended the meeting. Before commencement of the meeting, Pu K.Lalrinliana, Hon'ble Minister; DC, Kolasib; SP, Kolasib and DFO, Kolasib met the Joint VCs and NGOs leaders and gave a report on the action taken by the state Government concerning the ongoing issue. The Joint Meeting passed the following resolutions:

 i) Lauded the initiative taken by the Government of Mizoram for the  dismantle of the makeshift camp by Assam Government.

 ii) The Government of Mizoram should construct MAP Camp at  Mualkhang Tlang, adjacent to Assam Police Camp.

 iii) The Government of Mizoram should immediately implement the  ongoing development works along the inter-state border with Assam.

 iv) Joint Village Councils and All NGOs must work in coordination in  border issues and restrict outsiders from involvement in Bairabi border  issues without the consent of Joint VCs and All NGOs.

 v) Urged Mizoram Police/Force to act promptly before the civilian  response to any border dispute incident.

 Information received indicated that people from Assam had fully dismantled the said makeshift camps @ 11:00 am and removed the construction materials.

****17.10.2022 :** Zo United Defence Front (ZUDF), General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.10.2022 expressed regret over frequent occurrence of border dispute between Mizoram and Assam. In this connection, it requested both the states i.e., Assam and Mizoram not to take new initiative within 509 sq miles Inner Line Reserved Forest area before settling the matter by the Central Government. It also stated they will not be held responsible for occurrence of any action against them, if either of the state takes any action within the area. It requested residents of Assam and Mizoram and any association not to take any action and maintained that ZUDF will take severe action against any violation of their request.**

**19.10.2022:** Information received stated that Assam Police duty at Lailapur, Cachar District refused entry of locally harvested areca nut of Vairengte and Bilkhawthlir area into Assam as per the direction of higher authority. In this connection, DC, Kolasib sent a written letter to his counterpart, i.e., DC, Cachar with a request to take necessary action for transportation of locally harvested areca nut into Assam.

3.11.2022 : Zo-Fa Tangrual Pawl (Zo-Fa Allied Organization) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to Smt. Droupadi Murmu, Hon'ble President of India on 3.11.2022 wherein they requested her intervention for immediate transfer of Inner Line Reserved Forest of 509 sq. miles to Mizoram.

**3.11.2022:** Zo-Fa Tangrual Pawl (Zo-Fa Allied Organization) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to Smt. Droupadi Murmu, Hon'ble President of India on 3.11.2022 wherein they requested her intervention for immediate transfer of Inner Line Reserved Forest of 509 sq. miles to Mizoram.

**17.11.2022 :** (Joint Statement) A discussion was held between the high level delegations led by Hon'ble Minister of Border Protection and Development, etc. Assam and Hon'ble Home Minister, Mizoram on 17th November, 2022 at 11:00 AM in Hotel Vivanta, Khanapara, Guwahati, Assam. The following decisions were arrived at :

 1. Government of Mizoram will furnish the list of villages, their areas, geo- spatial extent, and ethnicity of the people and other relevant information within  three months to support their claim which can be examined by setting up  Regional Committees from both sides to arrive at an amicable resolution of the  vexed border issues. Government of Assam will extend full cooperation  wherever sought.

 2. Both sides agreed to abide by the resolutions encapsulated in the Joint  Statement of 5th August,2021 signed in Aizawl.

 3. Both side agreed to continue their resolve to maintain peace and harmony on  the Inter-State border among communities living on both sides with a view to  further strengthen their age old ties.

 4. High level delegation from Mizoram expressed that there has been huge  unrest among the areca nut growers in Mizoram on account of problems being  faced in transportation of their produce to Assam and other parts of the  country.; Both the sides agreed to refer the issue to respective Hon'ble Chief Minister to evolve an amicable solution.

 5. Bothe sides also agreed to continue sustained zero tolerance policy against  transportation of smuggled areca nut from other countries.

**28.12.2022 :** Information has been received that some unidentified farmers/villagers cut down some trees and cleared a patch of forest area located to the north of Mizoram Police border duty post at Zophai, Bairabi on 26.12.2022. It was further learnt that Assam Police and forest officials came to the spot on 27.12.2022 and informed the trespassers to cease felling trees. In this connection, no untoward incidents occurred and the trespassers who were later learnt to be both Mizos and Bengali loggers were told by Assam officials to immediately return back to their home and warned not to repeat the said act in future. Ramnathpur OC and Forest officials visited the spot on the morning of 28.12.2022 and found no one on the spot and all fell trees have been still lying.