**21.11.2022**: Information has been received that the alleged Bangladesh Army backed Arakan Army (AA) and Kuki Chin National Army (KNA) has been exchanging fire at Chaihkhiang village, Bangladesh since 16.11.2022. Consequence upon this around 300 residents (mostly Bawm tribe) including children and women of Sunsong, Salopui, Thingdawl and Chhaihkhiang villages of Bangladesh has fled their villages to take shelter inside Mizoram. As many as 272 refugees had entered Bandukbanga village, Lawngtlai District in the evening of 20.11.2022 @ 4:00 p.m. and residents of Bandukbanga and BSF personnel are providing food/relief to them. Mr. Sitro Mohon, MDC, LADC who was available at the village also held talks with BSF for provision of shelter to the refugees.

 It may be mentioned that Kuki Chin National Army is the arm wing of Kuki Chin National Front (KNF). It was formed by ethnic Kuki-Chin-Mizo people demanding separate state and safeguards for the community in Bangladesh.

****28.11.2022 :** A meeting was held under the chairmanship of DC, Lawngtlai on 28.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. in connection with accommodation of Bangladesh refugees (mostly from Bawm community), who have taken shelter inside the state due to occurrence of exchange of fire incident between Bangladesh Army backed Arakan Army and Kuki-Chin National Army. It was reported in the meeting that as many as 272 (two hundred seventy two) refugees had entered the State on 20.11.2022 and another 21 (twenty one) refugees arrived on 26.11.2022. All the stated refugees are accommodated in Parva III Community Hall, Health Sub-Centre and Govt. Primary School, Parva. The meeting also decided that if any new refugees arrived, they will be accommodated at Mautlang, Chamdur Project, Vathuampui, Hmunnuam, Damdep 2, Hmawngbu and Saizawh West.**

****