****10.3.2022 :** Zo Re-Unification Organisation (ZORO) General Headquarters in its written Memorandum submitted to Shri. Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 stated that ZORO was founded on 20.5.1988 at Champhai, Mizoram by an assembly of Chin-Kuki-Mizo tribes from India, Bangladesh and Myanmar as an umbrella organization to work for the cause of re-unification of the said ethnic tribes. It also stated that around 30,000 (approx) Myanmar Refugees are presently taking shelter within Mizoram following military coup in Myanmar in February, 2021 and they are taken care of by NGOs on humanitarian grounds. It further appealed the government of India to extend necessary assistance to the stated Myanmar refugees and arrange appropriate hospitality to elected members of Myanmar Member of Parliament and State Legislature, who are taking shelter within India.**

**31.5.2022 :** Zo Re-Unification Organisation (ZORO) called a Press Conference on 31.5.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Aizawl Press Club. Pu R. Sangkawia, President ZORO presided the press conference, and 7 (seven) ZORO members and 6 (six) media persons attended. During the press conference, a Press Note was issued which stated that a sizeable number of zo-ethnic tribes are settled in Manipur since time immemorial and they are considered as indigenous tribes of Manipur. It also stated that declaration of a large portion of zo-ethnic tribes habitat areas in Manipur as forest reserve area by Manipur government is a clear violation of the law of India and Article 10 of United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). ZORO viewed the same seriously and will not allow any form of deprivation of rights of the Mizo tribes. It strongly condemned the arrest of Dr. Mark Thangmang Haokip, who openly opposed the said initiatives taken by Manipur government and demanded his immediate and unconditional release.

**12.7.2022 :** Zo Re-Unification Organization (ZORO) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 12.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, Vice President and Pu L. Ramdinliana Renthlei, General Secretary, ZORO attended 'Public Consultation Meeting' organized by Research &amp; Preservation of the Zo Identities (RPZI) which was held on 10.7.2022 at Lamka, Manipur. Delivering a speech at the meeting, Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte stated that ZORO strongly condemned the Manipur government for declaring Zo-ethnic inhabited areas as Forest Reserve and alleged the said act as an attempt to deprive Zo-ethnic tribes in Manipur of their land. Pu L. Ramdinliana Renthlei, General Secretary ZORO also delivered a speech. It further stated that ZORO viewed declaration of various zo-ethnic inhabited areas in Manipur as Reserved Forest seriously as the same is a clear violation of Article 10 of United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People(UNDRIP) and the law of the land.

****20.7.2022 :** Zo Re-unification Organization (ZORO) in its Press Release issued on 20.7.2022 stated that a function was held on the occasion of the 7th death anniversary of Pu R. Thangmawia (L), ZORO Founder President today @ 12:00 noon at ZORO Office, Treasury Square. Pu R. Sangkawia ZORO President presided the function and Pu Rohmingthanga Colney, ZORO Vice President held devotion, and a speech was delivered from the relative of Pu R. Thangmawia (L). It further stated that ZORO will continue to take necessary action for unity of Zo-ethnic tribes across the globe.**

**10.8.2022 :** Zo Reunification Organisation (ZORO) General Headquarters observed International day of World Indigenous Peoples on 10.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Conference Hall. Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, Vice President ZORO presided the function and Er. Lalrinawma, Deputy Speaker graced the occasion as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Er. Lalrinawma stated that it is vital to be united for our survival and he also stressed the need to preserve and develop Mizo language. Pu R. Sangkawia, President ZORO also delivered a speech. A Press Release in this regard was issued yesterday.

****25.10.2022:** On 24.102.2022, ZORO General Headquarters observed United Nations Organization (UNO) Day at MZP Conference Hall, Aizawl. Pu Rohmingthanga Colney, Vice President presided the function and Pu L. Ramdinliana Renthlei, General Secretary ZORO gave a report on various activities undertaken by ZORO. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu R. Sangkawia, President ZORO highlighted the aims and objectives of UNO. He also stated that ZORO requested UNO to take necessary action so that Zo-tribes regain their sovereignty. He also stated ZORO had sent delegates to UN Session and necessary action has been taken for the development of Zo-tribes. Pu Lalmuanthanga Fanai, General Secretary MNF; Pu V. Lalthazuala, General Secretary MPCC; Pu Vanlalruata, President MPC; Pu Lallianzuala, Policy Drafting member ZPM and Pu R. Vanramchhuanga, Vice President BJP also delivered speeches at the function. A Press Release in this regard was issued yesterday.**
**16.11.2022 :** Leaders of Zo Reunification Organisation (ZORO) met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram on 16.11.2022 at CMO and they held discussion on Zofa Convention scheduled to be held during March, 2023. The Hon'ble Chief Minister reportedly assured leaders of ZORO that he will provide necessary support to ZORO for organising Zofa Convention.

****29.11.2022 :** Zo-Reunification Organisation (ZORO) held a meeting on 29.11.2022 @ 12:00 Noon. Pu R. Sangkawia, President, ZORO presided over the meeting and 15 (fifteen) members attended. The meeting decided to close ZORO Office for this year w.e.f. 13.12.2022 and set to re-open w.e.f. 16.1.2023.**

****01.12.2022 :** Zo-Reunification Organisation (ZORO) in its Press Release issued on 30.11.2022 stated that Block Development Officers (BDO) issued a notice as per the direction of some Deputy Commissioners (DC) for conduct of census of various clans including Mizo sub-clans viz. Chorei, Simte, Zou, Zomi, Neihsial, Ranglong and Thado. It urged the State Sovernment to clarify as to why such census is to be conducted. It further expressed concern over the initiative taken to separately maintain record of various Mizo sub-clans, who are residing within the State. It also requested the State Government to review and make necessary amendment of the said Order issued for conduct of census of Mizo sub-clans by some DCs.**