**15.12.2022 :**

(a) On 15.12.2022 @4:30 p.m., Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister inaugurated newly established Police Beat-Post at East Lungdar, Serchhip District. Pu Stephen Lalrinawma, SP, Serchhip District presided over the inaugural function and the Hon'ble Home Minister was accompanied by officials from Home department.
(b) On 15.12.2022, Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister graced the celebration function of the awards received by Leng village, Serchhip District as Chief Guest. Leng village has been awarded three national panchayat awards, namely- Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puruskar, Nanaji Deshmukh Rastryia Gaurav Gram Sabha Puruskar and 2nd National Award, 2019. Pu Lalchamliana had also unveiled the monument erected by Leng village for receiving the three awards at Lallungkawn, Leng. Pu K. Lalrinliana, Hon'ble Minsiter of State, LAD, etc. also attended the celebration function as guest of honour.

****16.12.2022:**  On 16.12.2022, Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister &amp; Hrangturzo constituency MLA inaugurated Hmunzawl Community Hall which was constructed at a cost of Rs. 26 lakhs. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalchamliana stated that the State Government intends to continue to distribute SEDP Family Oriented Second Instalment before the end of February, 2023. He also stated that apart from 60,000 beneficiaries in the first phase scores of beneficiaries will be included in the second phase. Pu Lalnunmawia, VCP Hmunzawl presided over the Inauguration Function.**