**10.3.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee (NGOCC) submitted a written memorandum to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they requested to take necessary action for removal of the names of Brus (who had fled to Tripura in the late 1990's due to ethnic issues), who refused to return to Mizoram and have permanently settled in Tripura from the electoral rolls of Mizoram and to enable their immediate inclusion in the Electoral Rolls of Tripura.

****10.3.2022 :** Zo Re-Unification Organisation (ZORO) General Headquarters in its written Memorandum submitted to Shri. Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 stated that ZORO was founded on 20.5.1988 at Champhai, Mizoram by an assembly of Chin-Kuki-Mizo tribes from India, Bangladesh and Myanmar as an umbrella organization to work for the cause of re-unification of the said ethnic tribes. It also stated that around 30,000 (approx) Myanmar Refugees are presently taking shelter within Mizoram following military coup in Myanmar in February, 2021 and they are taken care of by NGOs on humanitarian grounds. It further appealed the government of India to extend necessary assistance to the stated Myanmar refugees and arrange appropriate hospitality to elected members of Myanmar Member of Parliament and State Legislature, who are taking shelter within India.**

**10.3.2022 :** Ex-Mizo National Army Association (Ex-MNA) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they requested him to take necessary action to provide Housing Assistance to MNF underground personnel who came over-ground following the signing of Mizoram Peace Accord, 1986. It also stated that there was a confrontation between few Mizo youths and Assam Rifles in April, 1988, which led to opening of fire and thus, resulted in the death of 4 (four) innocent persons and left many casualties. Due to the stated incident, Pu Laldenga (L) the then Chief Minister of Mizoram requested the Central Government to shift out Assam Rifles from the heart of Aizawl city. It further stated there has been no action from Assam Rifles for shifting their Headquarters to Zokhawsang despite receiving instruction from Ministry of Home Affairs and provision of necessary infrastructures at the area. In this connection, they requested to take necessary action for immediate shifting of Assam Rifles.

****10.3.2022 :** Joint Action Committee on Inner Line Reserved Forest Demand submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they alleged Assam Government of violating status quo within 1875 Inner Line Reserved Forest and destructing crops and MNREGS works along the inter-state border. In this connection, it appealed to invoke The Scheduled Castes and The Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and The Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights, 2007).**

**10.3.2022 :** Mizoram Kohhran Hruaitute Committee (The Mizoram Church Leaders Committee) submitted a written representation to Shri. M. Venkaiah Naidu, Hon'ble Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they stated the following :-

 (i) Requested to take necessary action so as to ensure intervention of Union  Government in providing necessary assistance to Myanmar Refugees,  who are presently taking shelter within the State.
 (ii) Requested his intervention for amicable settlement of long inter-state  boundary disputes.

 (iii) Requested to take necessary action for re-consideration of the stringent  provisions of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) so as to  encourage more donations from abroad to NGOs, religious  establishment and institutions in India.

**10.3.2022 :** On Dt. 9.3.2022, Shri. M. Venkaiah Naidu, Hon'ble Vice President of India held an interaction with Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister along with 11 (eleven) Council of Ministers at Raj Bhavan on 10.3.2022 @ 8:00 a.m. Thereafter, the Vice President of India addressed the 9th Session of the 8th Legislative Assembly of Mizoram at Assembly House, Aizawl. Further, the Vice President of India held interaction with leaders of Mizoram University, NGO Coordination Committee, Central Young Mizo Association (CYMA), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Mizo Hmeichhe Insuihkhawm Pawl (MHIP), Mizoram Upa Pawl (MUP), Mizo Students' Union (MSU), Mizoram Kohhran Hruaitute Committee (MKHC) and Pi Rebecca Biswakarma, Ukranian Returnee at Raj Bhavan the same evening @ 4:00 p.m. The Vice President assured to look into the various written Memorandums/Petitions submitted and issues raised during the meeting.