**10.1.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (GMGE&amp;W) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to Chief Minister of Mizoram on 7.1.2022 wherein they requested the Chief Minister to take necessary action regarding freezing of DA rate and to increase DA rate for Mizoram government employees at the earliest. It also requested to take necessary action so as to pay their salary on time as many government employees are facing difficulties due to late payment of their salary. It further stated that pensioners are facing difficulties due to late/non-payment of their pension benefits and in this connection, they requested to take necessary action for early payment of their pension benefits.

****11.2.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) General Headquarters held a meeting on 11.2.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at Conference Hall, Directorate of Economics &amp; Statistics, MINECO. Pu Lalchuailova, President, FMGE&amp;W presided the meeting and 25 (twenty five) members attended. During the meeting, discussion was made on the various petitions submitted to the state government regarding hike in Dearness Allowance (DA), timely payment of monthly salary and pension benefits. In this connection, the meeting decided that in demand of hike in DA and timely payment of monthly salary, all members should wear black 'Badge' during 21.2.2022 - 25.2.2022 and if their demand is not met, a Council Meeting shall be held on 1.3.2022 to discuss their course of action.**

****16.2.2022**  Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held its Extended &amp; Adviser Meeting on 16.2.2022 at MZP President's office chamber, Aizawl. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP, presided the meeting and 16 (sixteen) members attended. The meeting decided to observe Zoram Ni (Zoram Day) on 5.3.2022 to commemorate the aerial bombing of Aizawl City the same day in 1966. It also decided to avail bank loan from Apex Bank for renovation of MZP Office. It further decided not to issue any statement in connection with the request received from FMGE&amp;W not to oppose their demand for extension of service of employees under the State government from 60 to 62 years of age.**

****18.2.2022:**  8 (eight) leaders of Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) led by Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W met the Chief Minister of Mizoram on 18.2.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at the latter's office chamber. It was reported that the Chief Minister assured the following in the meeting :-**

 (i) To increase Mizoram government employees DA and Pensioner DR from 17 % to 28 % w.e.f. 1.3.2022 and to take necessary action for increase of the same to 31 % from the new financial year.

 (ii) Salary of government employees should be paid on time.

 (iii) Issues on Pensioner retirement benefits should be resolved at the earliest.

 In connection with the above, FMGE&amp;W held its Emergency Meeting today @ 2:00 p.m. at Archive Hall, Babutlang, Aizawl. Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W, presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting considered the above-mentioned assurances given by Chief Minister of Mizoram during their meeting and decided to cancel their previous decision to wear black badge during 21-25.2.2022 and their intention to convene General Council Meeting on 1.3.2022.
****18.5.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) Executive Committee Meeting was held on 18.5.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at FMGE&amp;W Office, Babutlang, Aizawl. Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W presided the meeting and 31 (thirty one) members attended. The meeting decided that if the state government failed to hike/increase D.A from 28 percent to 34 percent as per their written petition submitted to the Chief Minister on 26.4.2022, the Federation Council Meeting should be called to discuss their course of action. The meeting also decided to take necessary action for increase of retiring age of government employees from 60 years to 62 years and in this connection, they entrusted OB FMGE&amp;W to take necessary action.**

****19.5.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) submitted a written petition to Chief Minister of Mizoram on 19.5.2022 wherein they requested the Chief Minister to take necessary action for increase of DA of state government employees from 28% to 34% which is at par with the Central government employees. It also stated that they will await the decision of state government in this regard till the end of May, 2022 and if there is no development on the matter, General Council Meeting should be called in June, 2022 to discuss their course of action. It also requested the Chief Minister to immediately consider their request in connection with increase of retiring age of state government employees from 60 years to 62 years so as to avoid acute shortages of staff due to retirement and irregular recruitment.**

****13.6.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) held General Council Meeting on 13.6.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Archives Hall, Zarkawt. Pu Lalchuailova, President, FMGE&amp;W presided the meeting and 90 (ninety) members attended the meeting. The meeting reviewed the action already taken by the federation and resolved to strongly move the State government to increase DA rate to 34 percent, and in this regard, they entrusted OB, FMGE&amp;W to prepare their action plan.**

****22.6.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) Executive Meeting held on 21.6.2022 decided to wear black badge during 27.6.2022 to 1.7.2022 as their repeated request to increase DA rate at par with the Central Government i.e., 34 percent from the present DA rate i.e., 28 percent for employees of Mizoram government has not been implemented by the State government. It also decided that necessary action will continue to be taken, if the same yield no fruitful result. It further requested the State government to increase the retirement age from 60 years to 62 years as around 2000 (two thousand) government employees retired every year and there has been no proper/regular recruitment during the last 10 years, which adversely affected the works of departments in the State.**

****23.6.2022 :** 6 (six) leaders of Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) led by Pu R. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President, FMGE&amp;W met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister on 23.6.2022 @ 2:45 p.m. at the latter's office chamber. During the meeting, discussion was held regarding FMGE&amp;W demand for hike in DA rate for employees of Mizoram government. Input received stated that the Chief Minister requested leaders of FMGE&amp;W to await the State government's action till the end of this week. In this regard, leaders of FMGE&amp;W also stated that their decision to wear black badge w.e.f., 27.6.2022 will be re-considered based on the action taken by the State government regarding during this week.**
**24.6.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) in its letter issued on the evening of 23.6.2022, addressed to President/General Secretary of All Affiliated Association of FMGE&amp;W, stated that leaders of FMGE&amp;W met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister the same day and in this connection, they stated the following:

 (i) The Chief Minister assured to place before the Cabinet Meeting regarding their demand for increase of retiring age of government employees from 60 years to 62 years.

 (ii) The Chief Minister also stated that discussion with be held immediately with officials/authorities of Finance Department regarding their demand for hike in DA rate.
 It also stated that despite holding a fruitful interaction regarding their various demands with the Chief Minister the day before 23.6.2022, FMGE&amp;W Executive Meeting decision to wear black badge during 27.6.2022 to 1.7.2022 shall stand and any information regarding the same will be intimated.

****27.6.2022 :** As per the decision of Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) Executive Meeting held on 21.6.2022, employees of Mizoram government started wearing black badge at their respective work places w.e.f., 27.6.2022 in demand for hike in DA rate for employees of the state government to 34%. They intended to wear black badge till 1.7.2022.**

****29.6.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees and Workers (FMGE&amp;W) OB Meeting was held on 29.6.2022 @ 3:00 p.m. at Directorate of Transport's Conference Hall. Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W presided the meeting and 6 (six) members attended. The meeting discussed Launching programme of their ongoing initiative for setting up of Housing complex at Govt. Complex and decided that the function will be held on 15.7.2022 and Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram will grace the function as Chief Guest. The meeting also decided to await the state government till 1.7.2022 in connection with their ongoing Black Badge agitation in demand of hike in DA rate.**

****1.7.2022:** Information received from leaders of Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) stated that their ongoing black badge agitation in demand of hike in DA rate, which is scheduled till dt 1.7.2022, will not be continued. They also stated that the state government's decision will be awaited in connection with their standing demand for hike in DA rate.**

****4.7.2022 :** Pu Tawnluia, Deputy Chief Minister and Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Health Minister held a meeting with 6 (six) leaders of Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) led by Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W on 4.7.2022 @ 7:00 a.m. During the meeting, Deputy Chief Minister apprised leaders of FMGE&amp;W regarding the financial difficulties being faced by the state government and requested to understand the state government in connection with their standing demand of hike in DA rate. Information received stated that leaders of FMGE&amp;W intend to hold a meeting on 7.7.2022 to discuss their course of action.**

****3.8.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) held its Executive Committee Meeting on 3.8.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at FMGE&amp;W's Office, Babutlang, Zarkawt. Pu Lalchuailova, President FMGE&amp;W presided the meeting and 25 (twenty five) members attended. The meeting decided the following concerning the state government:**

 (i) Proper study should be conducted by engaging advocate in connection  with encroachment of Federation Enclave land by private persons.  Further, OB FMGE&amp;W should take necessary action for allotment of  site office at MINECO to facilitate booking of Federation Enclave Flat.

 (ii) DP&amp;AR should be strongly requested to amend the present Office   Memorandum on vacancy based roster as it is against service rules and  principle of natural justice and it also adversely affects Promotees and  LDE quota.

**21.12.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) held Executive Committee at Directorate of Transport Conference Hall on 20.12.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. Pu Lalchuailova, President, FMGE&amp;W presided over the meeting and around 20 (twenty) members attended. The meeting resolved the following:

 (i) It entrusted OB, FMGE&amp;W to take necessary follow up action on their standing demand to increase DA of government employees and to increase the retiring age of Government employees to 62 years. In this connection, if the situation warrant, General Council Meeting or General Body Meeting will be called in the coming year to discuss their course of action.
 (ii) To carefully conduct detail study on the proposal of Audit &amp; Account Service Association moved for implementation of Old Pension Scheme to all Government employees, and the same should be considered again in the next meeting.