**28.2.2022 :** Mizoram Underground Returnees Association (MURA) in its Press Release issued on 28.2.2022 expressed their support and faith in Pu Zoramthanga's led government. It also stated that they will take necessary action so as to form government by MNF and in this regard, appealed the general public for their support.

**28.3.2022:** Mizoram Underground Returnees Association (MURA) General Headquarters held its Rising Day function at the residence of Pu PC Lalthlamuana, Chanmari, Aizawl.Pu P.C. Lalthlamuana, Financial Secretary, MURA presided the function and 18 (eighteen) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu PC Lalthuama, President MURA expressed gratitude to MNF government for showing favouritism to them and stated that they will alliance with MNF Party in the coming General Election.

****15.7.2022 :** Mizoram Underground Returnees' Association (MURA) held its Emergency Meeting on 15.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at MURA Office, Treasury Square. Pu R. Vanlalvena, General Secretary MURA presided the meeting and 20 (twenty) members attended. During the meeting, Pu Lalthuama, President MURA stated that the land allotted to members of MURA at Tuivamit will be settled soon due to the initiative taken by Pu Lalruatkima, Minister. The meeting after deliberate discussion decided that the State government should be requested to provide government jobs to their dependents within this year as per their agreement. It also decided to take necessary action so that MURA members receive assistances under SEDP or contract works as per their agreement with the State government. It further decided to extend necessary support to MNF in the coming 2023 General Election.**