**10.2.2022 :** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.2.2022 stated that some shop owners are running their shops by incurring losses since 2020 due to imposition of Covid-19 induced Lockdown. In this regard, it highlighted the following :-

(i) Shop owners are severely affected as they could not open their shops properly since March, 2020. At the same time, they have to pay salary to their workers, electric bills, rent etc. In this regard, they expressed their desire to open their shops by strictly following Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) and opined that closing of business shops is not an effective way to combat COVID-19 pandemic.


(ii) They also opined that opening of business shops is not the reason for surge in COVID-19. It further stated that no contamination of COVID-19 occurred from their shops as they are very careful and strictly followed CAB.

(iii) Medical and essential shops are opened daily during enforcement of opening of shops in staggered manner and there has been minimal report of COVID-19 contraction case from such shops. The same clearly depicted that shop is not a place of spreading the disease. They considered issuance of order which directed opening of shops in staggered manner only deprived and caused hardships to them.




(iv) Expressed their desire to run their business regularly by strictly following CAB and SOP, and if the same is not allowed, the state government should provide relief to them.
 It further stated that if opening of shops in staggered manner clause is not amended in the present SOP, MIMA Executive Meeting will be held to discuss their course of action.

**16.2.2022**  Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.2.2022 stated that leaders of MIMA met the Chief Minister of Mizoram today @ 3:00 p.m. in which the latter expressed his support to MIMA's suggestion for opening of all shops. It also stated that the Deputy Chief Minister is also in support of the stated suggestion. It further expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister and expected immediate issue of new SOP to this effect.

**19.2.2022:** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) in its Press Release issued on 19.2.2022 expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister for taking prompt action which enables them to carry on their normal livelihood by allowing opening of all shops. At the same time, it stated their desire for more careful scrutiny for issuance of ILP.

28.2.2022

(a) Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) in its Press Release issued on 26.2.2022 stated that MIMA held a meeting with leaders of Mizoram Transporters the same day. It also stated that during the meeting, the various difficulties faced by transporters and the action taken in this regard by MIMA was highlighted. The meeting decided to seek authority's intervention so as to find a solution for easy delivery of goods. It further highlighted in the meeting regarding charging of excessively high labour/mutia cost. In this connection, the meeting decided to prepare permanent ID Card for Labourer/Mutia and to report to the authority in case of occurrence of charging execessily high labour/mutia cost for taking necessary action.

(b) Mizoram Underground Returnees Association (MURA) in its Press Release issued on 28.2.2022 expressed their support and faith in Pu Zoramthanga's led government. It also stated that they will take necessary action so as to form government by MNF and in this regard, appealed the general public for their support.

**14.3.2022:** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA), General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.3.2022 stated that MIMA Executive Meeting after close scrutiny of AMC Licensing Regulations, 2021 opined that there is no provision for the safety of indigenous/local shop owners as the documents required for obtaining shop licence could easily be obtained by non-Mizos. It also stated that MIMA found that a good numbers of non-Mizo shop owners got registered under the Aizawl Municipal Council (AMC) and they still stand firm on their decision that all traders/shop owners should not get registered under AMC. It also urged the authorities of AMC not to coerce business owners to get registration under AMC. It further urged all Banks not to demand AMC registration while applying loan.

**27.5.2022 :** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on the evening of 26.5.2022 stated that leaders of MIMA met Pu David N Lhouvum, SBI Chief Manager the same day and submitted a written petition in connection with the difficulties faced by the general public due to shortages of small changes in the market viz., Re.1 and Rs. 2, 5, 10 and 20 and the difficulties faced in exchange of Rs.10 coins. It also stated that SBI Chief Manager assured to take necessary action and stated that Rs.10 coins can be deposited any time into the Bank.

****20.6.2022:** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA), General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.6.2022 stated that immediate issuance of POL control/rationing order due to occurrence of road damages or other natural disaster in other states caused panic among the general public, which led to long queue in the petrol pump. It also stated that during such a situation, the public are restricted from collecting petrol using gallon/container from Petrol Pump while the state government officials are allowed to collect petrol as much as they want using coupon. It further stated the need to curb illegal selling of petrol in places other than petrol pumps as petroleum blackers (one who sells petrol without permission) engaged in hoarding which allegedly led to immediate depletion of stock of POL in the petrol pumps.**

****22.7.2022 :** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.7.2022 stated that MIMA General Headquarters Executive Meeting held yesterday discussed the proposal intended to be submitted in the Cabinet Committee regarding enforcement of Minimum Wages as per Shops and Establishment Act for shops and establishment within the state. It also stated that no state in India used such kind of law and the same was enforced only in big industry, private hospital and well established factory and insurance company. It further expressed disappointment over the said initiative and the same will not be accepted at any cost. It further stated that they intend to convey the matter to Chief Minister and other concern authorities, and appealed the Cabinet Committee not to approve the said proposal.**

****12.8.2022 :** Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) Executive Meeting was held on 12.8.2022 @ 3:00 p.m. at MIMA Office. Dawrpui, Aizawl. Pu Laldawngliana, President MIMA presided the meeting and 13 (thirteen) members attended. The meeting decided to oppose, if the Minimum Wages under Shop &amp; Establishment Act is approved by the State government.**