****10.11.2022 :** Students' Union of Government Aizawl North College organized an indefinite Sit-in demonstration in front of their College at Ramhlun North, Aizawl w.e.f., on 10.11.2022 @9:30 a.m. in protest against the alleged failure of the State Government on their demand, i.e., allotment of land for their college. Around 800 (eight hundred) students participated in the Sit-in demonstration. In this connection, leaders of Students' Union, Govt. Aizawl North College stated that they had approached State Government authorities' viz., Chief Minister; UD&amp;PA Minister and Higher &amp; Technical Education Minister on several occasions for allotment of land for their college. However, no positive action has been taken till date despite the authorities allegedly giving assurance to take necessary action on their demand. They also stated that at present, there are 1560 students at the college, and since the college buidling is congested, the college started renting Ramhlun North Bazar Building under Trade &amp; Commerce Department for class room w.e.f., 2015 to meet severe deficiency of class room and the contract period will expire this coming December, 2022.**

 In view of no positive response on their agitation, the students resorted to road blockade of Ramhlun to Bawngkawn road this afternoon @1:45 p.m. in demand of immediate response on their demand from the State Government. In this regard, Pu Lalnunfela Chawngthu, Election Officer, Aizawl District; Pu Francis Lallawmkima, Addl. SP, Aizawl; Pu C. Lalmalsawma, SDPO, Aizawl North held a meeting with leaders of SU, Govt. Aizawl North College and the officials requested to call off their ongoing agitation as the file concerning their demand is under process. After the meeting, the SU leaders considered the request of the officials and the road blockade was called off this afternoon @ 3:35 p.m. for the time being. Information received stated that they intend to continue the Sit-in demonstration on 11.11.2022 @9:00 a.m. in front of their college.
****11.11.2022 :** Students' Union of Government Aizawl North College continued their indefinite Sit-in demonstration in front of their College, Ramhlun North, Aizawl on 11.11.2022 @ 9:30 a.m. in protest against the alleged failure of the State Government on their demand, i.e., allotment of land for their college. As many as 500 (five hundred) students participated in the Sit-in demonstration.**

 In this connection, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu R. Lalramnghaka, Secretary, Higher &amp; Technical Education Department at his office chamber on 11.11.2022 @ 11:30 a.m. The meeting was attended by Dr. Lalhriatzuali Ralte, DC, Aizawl; Pu C. Lalruaia, SP, Aizawl; Pi Sangchhin Chinzah, Director, Higher &amp; Technical Education; Pu H. Lianzela, Director, UD&amp;PA, leaders of Aizawl North College SU led by PC Lalthansanga and concerned department officials. The meeting decided to conduct spot verification of the proposed land for Aizawl North College at Falkland near RAY (UD&amp;PA) Building tentatively on 18.11.2022 by concern department officials and SU leaders of Aizawl North College. It also decided that the state government should consider allotment of other convenient land, in case the stated land is not suitable for their college land. It was highlighted in the meeting that the State Government intends to provide Ramhlun North Bazar Building under Trade &amp; Commerce Department (presently on rent for classroom) as college extension building.
 Thereafter, leaders of Aizawl North College SU held a meeting at their college and the meeting decided to await necessary action to be taken by the Government on their demand. They also decided to take severe necessary action, if the State Government fails to take positive action on their demand. As such, the Sit-in demonstration was called off this afternoon @ 2:50 p.m.