**13.5.2022 :** Mara Students Organisation (MSO) organized Peace Rally 2022 on 13.5.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. The Peace Rally was organized in protest against engagement of substitute teachers and demand for conduct of fair recruitment of teachers under MADC. Around 500 (five hundred) students participated in the rally and the rally commenced at Siaha Bus Station and proceeded upto Bazar Traffic Point, Siaha. They dispersed under peaceful atmosphere on the same day at 11:18 a.m.

****23.8.2022 :** Mara Thyutlia Py (MTP), General Headquarters; Mara Chano Py (MCHP) and Mara Students' Organization (MSO) General Headquarters in its Joint Press Release issued on 23.8.2022 stated that they considered non consideration of their request made to the Chief Minister for revocation of the Transfer Order of Pu Khotha Jothyu, SDO PWD Bualpui "NG' Sub Division (who is regarded as committed and hardworking official) as disregard of the people of Mara. In this regard, they decided to organize Picketing of DC Siaha Office, PWD Office and other government offices w.e.f., tomorrow i.e., 24.8.2022 @ 7:00 a.m.**

 It may be mentioned that MTP General Headquarters in its letter issued to all the President of MTP Branches of Siaha on 22.8.2022 stated that Er. Khotha Jothyu, SDO, PWD Bualpui Sub Division has been transferred to Aizawl in pursuance of alleged complaint made against him by one Contractor allegedly due to his strict supervision of Chakhei to Siasi road construction work under CRC Fund. Due to his exemplary work, various NGOs of Siaha requested the Chief Minister to revoke the said transfer order and served an ultimatum in this regard. It also stated that they decided to resort to picketing of DC Siaha Office, PWD Office and other offices except Govt. Siaha H/S, if the transfer order is not revoked before the end of 23.8.2022.

**24.8.2022 :** Picketing of various governments offices was organized on 24.8.2022 @ 7:00 a.m. by Joint NGOs viz. Mara Thyutlia Py (MTP), General Headquarters; Mara Chano Py (MCHP) and Mara Students' Organization (MSO) General Headquarters in demand for revocation of the Transfer Order of Pu Khotha Jothyu, SDO PWD Bualpui "NG' Sub Division. A round 60 (sixty) protesters participated in the picketing and it was called off this afternoon @ 2:50 p.m. following issuance of transfer cancellation order of the said officer.