****28.3.2022:** Pang Zirlai Pawl (PZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.3.2022 stated that absence of an intention to set up Vathuampui RD Block in the recently held Council of Ministers' Meeting hurt the sentiment of various communities and Pang tribe residing inVathuampui area. It also stated that in this connection, leaders of PZP General Headquarters met Pu Lalruatkima, RD Minister on 25.3.2022 and requested to give special treatment as micro-minority Pang and Bawm area regarding setting up of RD Block in the stated area. They also requested not to set up APOOffice at Longpuinghat, and failure to comply with their request may lead to communal conflict. It further stated that a sizeable numbers of Pangs sacrificed their lives and volunteered as freedom fighters during MNF movement, i.e., 1966 - 1986 and urged the ruling MNF government to give more concern to Pang communities and Vathuampui village.**

**7.4.2022 :** Central Mizoram Chakma Students' Union (Central MCSU) in its Press Release issued on the evening of 6.4.2022 stated that Central MCSU submitted a written petition to the Chief Executive Member of Chakma Autonomous District Council on 4.4.2022 with a request to recruit Chakma and Mizo Language Teachers in the Chakma District Council for the prospect of both Chakma and Mizo Students. It also stated that Central MCSU feels that knowing the Mizo language by the Chakma students would create a good communal harmony between the two communities. A copy of the petition was also submitted to the Education Minister.

**12.4.2022 :** A meeting was held on 12.4.2022 @ 3:00 p.m. at the Conference Hall of SDO (C), Vairengte. The meeting was attended by Pu John LT Sanga, DC, Kolasib; Pu Isaac C. Lalrempuia, SDO (C), Vairengte and leaders of Vairengte Village Council; Vairengte YMA; Social Reconstruction &amp; Enlightenment (SORE); Mizo Zirlai Pawl, Vairengte Sub-Headquarters; Mizo Student Union, Vairengte and Vairengte Thalai Pawl. During the meeting, leaders of NGO highlighted the need to continue construction of road connecting Aitlang and Mautuizau and requested the DC to take necessary action for cancellation of SDO (C) Vairengte transfer order. In this connection, DC, Kolasib stated that cancellation of SDO (C) Vairengte transfer order is beyond his jurisdiction and he assured to look into the matter regarding their other requests.

 Information received stated that various Vairengte NGOs continued to organized picketing in front of SDO (C) Vairengte Office in order to prevent Pu Isaac C. Lalrempuia, SDO (C) Vairengte from leaving his post today, i.e., 12.4.2022.
****13.4.2022 :** Pu Isaac C. Lalrempuia, SDO(C) Vairengte held a meeting with leaders of Social Reconstruction &amp; Enlightenment (SORE); Mizo Zirlai Pawl, Vairengte Sub-Headquarters; Mizo Student Union, Vairengte and Vairengte Thalai Pawl in connection with their ongoing picketing organized in front of SDO(C) Vairengte Office on 13.4.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. During the meeting, Pu Isaac C. Lalrempuia requested leaders of the above mentioned NGOs to call off their ongoing picketing and accordingly, the picketing was called off the same evening.**

****12.9.2022 :** A meeting was held yesterday's afternoon of 11.9.2022 @1:00 pm, at SP, Aizawl Conference Hall in connection with students of various institutions who have not yet received scholarship, intending to organize protest in front of Chief Minister Office in demand for immediate distribution of scholarship. The meeting was chaired by Pu C. Lalruaia, SP, Aizawl and Sr. SP, CID (SB), Addl. DC, Aizawl; Secretary, Mizoram Scholarship Board; concerned department officials and representatives of students from 12 (twelve) concerned institutions attended the meeting. During the meeting, officials of Mizoram Scholarship Board (MSB) apprised the members the reasons of delay in distribution of scholarship i.e., non receipt of 3rd Instalment fund from the Ministry, and clarified all the queries raised by the students. After the meeting, representatives of students decided to cancel their intending protest in front of CM Office on 12.9.2022 @ 11:00 am.**

 In connection with the above, the students' representatives issued a statement which stated that the intending protest in front of Chief Minister Office on 12.9.2022 was cancelled as officials of MSB stated that the reason of delay in distribution of scholarship is due to non receipt of 3rd Instalment of fund from Ministry of Tribal Affairs. However, they intend to take severe necessary action, in case of delay in distribution of scholarship after receiving 3rd Instalment fund or delay in release of the state matching share/fund by State Finance Department.