**10.3.2022 :** Ex-Mizo National Army Association (Ex-MNA) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 wherein they requested him to take necessary action to provide Housing Assistance to MNF underground personnel who came over-ground following the signing of Mizoram Peace Accord, 1986. It also stated that there was a confrontation between few Mizo youths and Assam Rifles in April, 1988, which led to opening of fire and thus, resulted in the death of 4 (four) innocent persons and left many casualties. Due to the stated incident, Pu Laldenga (L) the then Chief Minister of Mizoram requested the Central Government to shift out Assam Rifles from the heart of Aizawl city. It further stated there has been no action from Assam Rifles for shifting their Headquarters to Zokhawsang despite receiving instruction from Ministry of Home Affairs and provision of necessary infrastructures at the area. In this connection, they requested to take necessary action for immediate shifting of Assam Rifles.

**14.3.2022:** Ex-MNA Association General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 12.3.2022 expressed regret over a death threat received by the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram from a group claiming to be 'Ram Siamtha Pawl' amidst Mizoram being one of the most peaceful states in the country. It also expressed their desire that such incident do not recur in future. It further stated that they will not allow the Chief Minister to be threatened by such miscreants, and assured to protect him from such kind of threat.

**15.3.2022:** Ex-MNA Association General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 14.3.2022 expressed gratitude over immediate arrest of Rodinliana (Apuia Tochhawng), who threatened to kill the Chief Minister. It also stated that the said person had previously threatened Pu Lal Thanhawla, former Chief Minister of Mizoram and also hurt the sentiments of Vairengte through his social media post. It also urged all political parties to refrain from engaging such kind of person as social media worker.

**20.4.2022 :** Ex-Mizo National Army (Ex-MNA) General Conference was held on 20.4.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Dawrpui Multipurpose Centre, Aizawl. Pu Rochungnunga, Ex-MNA President presided the function and Pu K. Vanlalauva, Treasurer, MNF graced the function as Chief Guest. They passed the following resolutions:

 (i) Expressed gratitude for not facing serious hardship amidst COVID-19  pandemic, outbreak of African Swine Flu, border issues and huge influx  of refugees and in this regard, it appreciated Pu Zoramthanga for his  able leadership.

 (ii) Expressed gratitude over sanction of fund for construction of   underground road tunnel by the Central Government at the initiative of  Pu Zoramthanga.

 (iii) Requested the MNF government to arrange relief measures for relatives  of Martyrs and MNF returnees as per Political Point No. 4 of MNF  Manifesto in the 2018 MLA General Election.

 (iv) Expressed confidence that Pu Zoramthanga's led government will again  win the 2023 General Election and it decided to faithfully follow the  party.

 A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

**12.5.2022 :** Ex-Mizo National Army Association (Ex-MNA) General Headquarters called a Press Conference on 12.5.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. Pu C. Zama, President Ex-MNA chaired the Press Conference and 24 (twenty four) persons including 9 (nine) media persons were present. During the press conference, a press note was issued wherein they stated that Pu Laldenga (L), the then Chief Minister of Mizoram, requested the Central government to shift out Assam Rifles from the heart of Aizawl city following the incident where many civilians were shot dead by Assam Rifles in April, 1988 due to clashes between Assam Rifles and some civil youths. In this regard, prompt actions have been taken for construction of necessary infrastructures at Zokhawsang so as to shift Assam Rifles from Aizawl city. It also stated that the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India directed DG, Assam Rifles to shift Assam Rifles Battalion Headquarters from Aizawl to Zokhawsang by 31.5.2019. However, the same was not complied with by Assam Rifles and the Ministry of Home Affairs again directed Lt. General Sukhdeep Sangwan, DG, Assam Rifles to shift Assam Rifles Battalion Headquarters from Aizawl to Zokhawsang before 31.3.2020 and it has not been complied till date. In this connection, Ex-MNA will continue take necessary action till the very end. The Chairman also mentioned that as advised by the President of India during his recent visit to Mizoram, Ex-MNA intends to approach the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister for shifting Assam Rifles from Aizawl to Zokhawsang.

**2.6.2022 :** Ex-MNA General Headquarters called a Press Conference on 2.6.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at Lunglei Press Club. The press conference was led by Pu C. Zama, President, EX-MNA and 7 (seven) Ex-MNA members and 5 (five) media persons attended. During the press conference, Pu C. Zama stated that Assam Rifles has not shifted to Zokhawsang despite the Ministry of Home Affairs instruction to DG, Assam Rifles, Shillong for relocation of Assam Rifles to Zokhawsang. In this connection, some persons personally attacked Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister as a liar. He also stated that all necessary infrastructures are fully prepared at Zokhawsang and Assam Rifles has not followed the instruction of Central government regarding their relocation to Zokhawsang. In this regard, he stated their intention to take necessary action.

****6.12.2022 :** Ex-Mizo National Army (Ex-MNA) OB held a meeting on 6.12.2022 @11:30 a.m. at their Office. Pu C. Zama, President Ex-MNA presided over the meeting and 20 (twenty) members attended. The meeting decided to organize cleaning of Martyrs' Graveyard on 20.12.2022 and set to close their office for this year on 16.12.2022.**