**21.2.2022:** Mizoram Journalist Association (MJA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.2.2022 stated that Pu Zonunsanga Khiangte, President MJA flagged off Pu Lalbiakthanga (64), who intends to visit the length and breadth of Mizoram on foot at Sikulpuikawn today @ 10:00 a.m. It also stated that Pu Lalbiakthanga already visited Kolasib hill range and Mamit hill range and is now intending to cover southern Mizoram.

**23.3.2022 :** Mizoram Journalist Association (MJA) organized its Golden Jubilee celebration on 23.3.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall, Aizawl and around 300 (three hundred) persons attended the programme. The programme was led by Pu Zonunsanga Khiangte, MJA President; Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister graced the function as Chief Guest and Pu Lalruatkima, Minister, was the Guest of Honor. The Chief Guest inaugurated the Golden Jubilee Monument and delivered a speech wherein he urged the journalists present to uphold 'Journalism Ethics' and to constantly work towards furtherance of journalism universal target on 'constructive truth'. The Golden Jubilee celebration will conclude on 24.3.2022.

**24.3.2022:** In continuation of our DSI Part-III, Dated 23.3.2022, Mizoram Journalist Association (MJA) continues its MJA Golden Jubilee celebration today at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall, Aizawl by organizing MJA General Conference 2022 cum OB Election. Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, Mizoram Legislative Assembly, graced the occasion as Chief Guest and around 110 (one hundred and ten) members attended the programme. An Official Resolution was passed in today's conference wherein it welcomed the steps taken by the government for giving pension to retired journalists and it requested the government to take swift actions. The following were elected as MJA OBs for 2022-2024 :-

President  : Pu C Lalrambuatsaiha, Editor, The Aizawl Post.

Vice President  : Pu Lalremsiama, Editor Zawlkhawpui.

Treasurer  : Pu C Lalhmachhuana, Editor, Youth Herald.

**6.5.2022 :**

(a) Mizoram Journalists' Association (MJA) General Headquarters, Aizawl in its Press Release issued on 6.5.2022 stated that Pu C. Lalrambuatsaiha, President MJA released a book titled 'Kum 10 chhung Budget thlirna (Review of the last 10 years' Budget)' written by Pu Malsawmdawngzela Hrahsel, News Reporter, Vanglaini in a function held today at Aizawl Press Club Conference Hall. It also stated that Pu Lalnuntawma Fanai presided the function and Pu Lalthlamuana Ralte, Assistant Professor, Pachhunga University College previewed the book. The function was attended by Pu Lalruatkima, I&amp;PR Minister; Pu C. Ngunlianchunga, MLA; Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA, concerned government officials and members of MJA.
(b) Mizoram Journalists' Association (MJA) General Headquarters, Aizawl in another Press Release issued on 6.5.2022 stated that Felicitation Function of MAL Book of the Year 2021 awardee Pu Lalhruaitluanga Chawngte, News Editor, The Aizawl Post was held today at Aizawl Press Club Conference Hall. Pu Lalremsiama, Vice President, MJA General Headquarters presided the function, and Pu C. Lalrambuatsaiha, President, MJA and Pu Lalhruaitluanga Chawngte delivered speeches at the function. It further stated that Certificate and cash amounting to Rs.10,000 were given to MAL Book of the Year 2021 awardee Pu Lalhruaitluanga Chawngte as a token of appreciation.

****31.8.2022 :** Mizoram Journalist Association (MJA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.8.2022 stated that leaders of MJA General Headquarters held a meeting with government officials under the chairmanship of Pu H. Lalengmawia, Commissioner &amp; Secretary, Home Department @ 1:00 p.m. to discuss misuse of Press Identity Card and Sticker by non media persons. During the meeting, the code of conduct of media persons was highlighted and decided to take necessary action on reported misuse of Press Identity Card and Sticker by non media persons. It also expressed their expectation that such persons discontinue their malpractice and further decided to take necessary action in case of occurrence of misuse of Press ID and Sticker in future.**