****14.1.2022 :** MPCC called a Press Conference on 14.1.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Chairman, and 12 (twelve) media persons and 5 (five) MPCC leaders were present. A Press Statement was issued which stated that Group 'A' and 'B' government employees have not received their salaries for December, 2021 as the State Government did not allocate sufficient fund for the same in the Mizoram Budget. It also stated that government employees are facing financial hardship and, in this regard, it requested the government to disburse salaries of Group 'B' employees along with Group 'C' &amp; 'D' employees. It further alleged that the government did not allocate enough fund for pensioners in the State Budget and this shows the failure of the government in financial management. It also pointed out that the government's debt has increased by Rs.3176 crores during the last 3 (three) years. It slammed the government for gearing up to distribute Rs.3 lakhs under SEDP and for continuously awarding contract works to its favored party workers in spite of the above situations. It stated that improvement of financial position of the state would be given priority if Congress comes to power again and pending medical bills and problems faced by the pensioners would be solved. On the issue of transfer of DC, Champhai, it urged the government to reconsider its decision as the order appears to be made as per the wishes of areca nut smugglers and their accomplices and this has hurt the sentiments of the people of Mizoram, otherwise, the government should be prepared to face the consequences. It further stated that the Chief Minister expressed his support to DC, Champhai in front of CYMA OBs on 13.1.2022 and yet, transfer order was issued the very same day which shows the two-faced nature of the Chief Minister.**

****18.1.2022** MPCC Media Department issued a Press Release on 18.1.2022 which highlighted that Congress Bhavan (Congress Party Office) was re-opened for 2022 today in a function held today at the party office under the guidance of Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President. It highlighted the speech made by Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, who has expressed his concern that Mizoram might become like Mexico and Colombia which are governed by miscreants. He also stated the need to bravely oppose things that harms the state and the Congress need to come to power again so as to reform the state and to set up a good government. He also said that lust for money brings trouble for the state and the government and it is the aim of the Congress party to form a good government and to reform and develop the state. He also earnestly invited all those who have left the Congress party for whatever reason to re-join the party and also appealed members of other political parties and neutral members to join the Congress party as the door is left wide open for them. Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, MPCC Treasurer also mentioned in his speech that government employees received their salaries on time during Congress ministry and could withdraw their GPF as per their needs, whereas the Finance Department under MNF government pulled together funds for salaries of its employees in an impromptu manner.**

****19.1.2022 :** MPCC Media Department issued a Press Release on 19.1.2022 which highlighted that Pu Sharul Hameed, Wing Commander &amp; Sainik School Pincipal, Chhingchhip, and Major S.Kalyana, Vice-Principal, met Pu Hari Babu Kambhampati, Hon'ble Governor, yesterday, i.e., 18.1.2022 and informed the latter that fund has not been received from the government of Mizoram for renovation and development of the school complex. It expressed regret that Sainik School, Chhingchhip has not received any fund for undertaking developmental works for the school and in this regard, it requested the government to give fund to the said school as lack of fund will adversely affect the progress and development of the school. It further stated that the previous Pu Lal Thanhawla's led Congress government has given its best effort for setting up of the said school and the people of Chhingchhip donated large areas of land for construction of the school building and other residential quarters and the school should receive funds for internal development and renovation from the government. The PR also highlighted the brief history of the school and its importance and value for the people of the state. It requested the government not to spend public money lavishly resulting in huge debt and to rather spend it for the welfare of the people.**

****21.1.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 21.1.2022 demanded the government to solve the problems face by many families having lands at Aitlang, Vairengte and other villages along the border that arises due to forceful occupation of land by Assam police. It stated that many farmers are unable to go to their fields and some farms were vandalized by Assam police. It urged the government to make arrangement so that farmers having broom cultivation at areas occupied by Assam police are able to harvest their broom cultivation and it also expressed desire that such lands should be taken back from the control of Assam police. In case of lack of courage to do so, it demanded the government to assess the value of crops and give compensation to the farmers. It also demanded the government to take necessary steps so that broom cultivators across the state gets maximum profits from selling their brooms and that prices are not monopolized by the Mahaldars.**

**24.1.2022 :**

(a) MPCC in its Order issued on 24.1.2022 urged all its 5 (five) sitting MsLA to look after their respective constituencies to the best of their abilities so as to get themselves re-elected, while the remaining 35 (thirty five) constituencies will be collectively looked after and it informed everyone not to treat a particular individual as a future candidate of the constituency. It stated that concern authorities, after due consultation and without undue delay, will select individuals who will look after each and every constituencies, and it also appealed Congress party members to patiently await for the decision of the higher authorities in this regard. It further stated that the said order was issued to avoid any problems that could arise out of existence of a particular individual primarily looking after a constituency and in order to win the 2023 General Election.

(b) MPCC issued 3 (three) separate Appointment Orders on 24.1.2022 wherein Pu Lal Hriatrenga Chhangte was appointed as Vice Chairman, Vigilance Cell; Er. Sanghrima of Zarkawt, Aizawl as Member, Vigilance Cell and Pu Lalfela of Tlangnuam, Aizawl as MPCC Special Invitee.
****25.1.2022 :** MPCC Vigilance Cell called a Press Conference on 25.1.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Pu Ngunlianchunga, MLA &amp; Chairman, MPCC Vigilance Cell, and he was accompanied by 5 (five) MPCC Vigilance Cell leaders and around 10 (ten) media persons attended the press conference. A Press Statement of MPCC Vigilance Cell was issued which highlighted that out of the 172 (one hundred seventy two) schools where reconstruction and repairing works are being undertaken using Rs. 3,500 lakhs borrowed from NABARD, MPCC Vigilance Cell visited 15 (fifteen) schools on 22.1.2022 and found out that there are a number of irregularities and lakhs of rupees were found missing even at Tuivawl Constituency alone. It further stated that of all the 15 schools visited, all the workers/party workers undertook the works with much lesser sanctioned amount (in terms of lakhs of rupees) than the approved estimated amount and even the workers expressed their surprise and inability to execute the work properly due to the reduced amount. It also stated that completion certificate were issued to all of them despite the sub-standard nature of the works executed. In this regard, it demanded the Education Minister to explain the irregularities and to ensure that all the sub-standard works are repaired/rectified. The Press Release also highlighted the names of the 15 (fifteen) schools visited along with the estimated amount, name of contractor/worker, fund sanctioned, type of works and materials used, shortcomings in execution of the work, etc.**

****28.1.2022 :** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 28.1.2022 stated that the government is intending to hike the electricity bills once again and in this regard, it set 20.2.2022 as the deadline for submission of objections. It demanded the government not to further increase the electricity bills and also expressed their intention to take strong actions against the government plan to hike electricity bills in defense of the people. It highlighted the increase in electricity by 20.68 % during 2021 and it demanded the government to announce the amount of revenue collected by the government as a result of it. Similarly, it also demanded the government to announce the increased revenue collected due to increase in VAT on Petrol and Diesel. It further demanded the government that distribution of Rs. 3 lakhs under SEDP and other developmental works should not further add to the State's financial debt.**

**31.1.2022 :**  MPYCC in its Press Release issued on the evening of 31.1.2022 demanded the government to pay the salaries of government employees on time. It highlighted the speech made by the Chief Minister at the MNF Diamond Jubilee Celebration at Kolasib on 28.1.2022 regarding SEDP and in this regard, it urged the government to disburse salaries of government employees on time as the government is in a position to distribute money under SEDP. It stated that late payment of salaries of government employees severely affected the general public at large.

****3.2.2022 :** MPYCC issued a Press Release on 3.2.2022 which highlighted that MPYCC intends to submit 'Objections' to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) against the government's suggestion for increase in power tariff and in this regard, leaders of MPYCC led by Dr. Lalmalsawma, President MPYCC, visited the office of JERC today and met Er. H. Thanthianga, Asst. Chief Engineer. Dr. Lalmalsawma expressed regret over the suggestion made the government and he appealed the public to support steps taken by MPYCC against increase in power tariff. He also called upon various Associations/Groups and individuals to submit their objections against plan to hike power tariff. He also highlighted the moderate increases in power tariff during the Congress Ministry, which he justified to be commensurate with the inflation rate existed in India at that particular time. The Press Release also highlighted that MPYCC leaders also looked into problems caused by one building at Hualngohmun, Aizawl district, which was alleged to be too close to Aizawl to Lunglei World Bank Road. It stated that vehicles proceeding to ZMC, Falkawn on medical emergencies often faced problems due to the narrow and congested road brought about by the building construction.**

****4.2.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 4.2.2022 highlighted that Pu John Siamkunga, GS MPCC, inducted Pi Vanlalfeli Hmar (Irene-i), Joint Secretary, ZPM General Headquarters &amp; i/c GAD, into Congress Party in a function held today at MPCC President's Room, Congress Bhavan, Aizawl. It highlighted the speech of Pu John Siamkunga wherein he alleged that people have no hope in ZPM Party and party members are having intra-party conflicts and problems were even tried to be resolved using physical force in ZPM Meeting. He further mentioned that there are many ZPM leaders intending to join congress party. Pi Vanlalfeli Hmar also mentioned in her speech that ZPM has left behind its Policy and party leaders, in their desire for position in the party, are more concerned with winning supporters rather than upliftment of the State. She also said sitting ZPM MsLA are more concerned with their personal benefits and glory and pays no due regard to the words of the Val Upa Council.**

**7.2.2022:** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 5.2.2022 stated that the incumbent Medical Officer (MO) of the 3 (three) new districts of Mizoram were appointed to hold the post of both the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and District Medical Superintendent (DMS) without any no post creation and this is highly against the norm. It alleged that the above move amounts to disregard of the 'service' of doctors under H&amp;FW Department and the people as there are other available 'senior' Medical Doctors. It further stated that both the CMO and DMS have distinct duties and responsibilities and the latter are usually hold by a 'senior specialist'. It also pointed out that as per the IPHS norms, there should be a number of specialist doctors besides the Medical Officer at the District Hospital.

**10.2.2022:** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 10.2.2022 stated that Mara District Congress Committee organized Congress Party Street Campaign at various locations in Siaha town today. Pu Zodintluanga, MLA &amp; CLP Leader; Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA &amp; Gen. Secretary, MPCC and Pu Rosiamngheta, AMC Councillor, delivered speeches in the campaign. Pu Zodintluanga alleged in his speech that MNF government remain silent on the issue of areca nut smuggling from Myanmar and Abu Mazumdar, who is known to be a major areca nut smuggler and currently 'Wanted' by Assam, was present at a dinner between the Chief Ministers of Assam and Mizoram. He also stated that Abu Mazumdar was not seen during the Congress ministry and he has now become a major supplier of rice in the MNF government. He also alleged that there has never been a stable ADC government under the MNF rule. He further alleged that the MNF government has completely failed in 'Financial Management' and he also questioned as to why bamboo is not included in the SEDP despite the Chief Minister's obsession on bamboo. The Press Release also highlighted the speech of Pu Lalrindika Ralte and Pu Rosiamngheta.

****11.2.2022 :** (a) Mizoram Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.2.2022 stated that a Public Meeting was held at Tuipang Gospel Centenary Square, Siaha District the same day. It also stated that delivering a speech at the meeting, Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, MLA, Leader of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) &amp; Treasurer, MPCC stated that the main reason of unstable administration in Autonomous District Council (ADC) is MNF's government. He also highlighted various instances of mismanagement of the state financial position under MNF government such as inability to pay government employees salary on time, GP Fund, pension benefits etc. He further stated that Pu Lalsawta, who is commendable in his financial management, will be Congress Chief Ministerial Candidate in the coming general election and appealed the general public to set up good governance in the said election. It also stated that Pu KT Rokhaw, Palak constituency MLA chaired the meeting and Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA; Pu Rosiamngheta, AMC Councillor and other leaders of Congress also delivered speeches.**

(b) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) in its Press Release issued on 11.2.2022 stated that Mr. Jayanta Malla Barua, Political Secretary to Chief Minister of Assam in his statement issued stated that Abu Mazumdar (alleged to be involved in areca nut smuggling) was from Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram entourage at a dinner with Assam Chief Minister on 25.11.2021 at New Delhi. It also urged the state government to issue clarification as the above statement contradicted the previous clarification issued by Chief Minister Office, Mizoram on the matter. It further urged the state government to issue clarification regarding supply of rice by the said Abu Mazumdar as the same is being widely discussed by the general public.

****14.2.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) in its Press Release issued on 14.2.2022 stated that MPYCC submitted a written objection to Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission for Mizoram &amp; Manipur regarding the state government's proposal for hike in electricity bills today. It also stated that in connection with the stated written objection, Dr. Lalmalsawma, President MPYCC stated that they urged the concern authority not to increase electricity bills as the general public would not be able to bear amidst COVID-19 pandemic. He also stated that they suggested the state government to prioritize fiscal austerity measures and downsize or abolish  14 (fourteen) SEDP Boards which they termed as 'loss making board'. He further expressed disappointment regarding the state government's refusal to take necessary action for Tuirini Hydel Project (Mega Watt 42) where funding was already finalized during Congress Ministry. He also appealed the public, MNF Party members to object the proposal for hike in electricity bills.**
**16.2.2022:**  MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on16.2.2022 highlighted that the Order issued by the Deputy Commissioner, Aizawl regarding guidelines to be followed in Red Zones has caused problems and impediments to Mizo workers as it permits only those workers staying at the workplace to carry on their activities. It stated that majority of non-Mizo workers stays at the workplace and hence benefits from the said guidelines. It also stated that the government has no evidence that Covid-19 spread more rampant among shopkeepers/businessman and daily wagers. It further stated that the government has no proper preparations for the current Covid-19 third wave and the people have to fend for themselves and treated themselves against the disease out on their own knowledge. In this regard, it demanded the government to make better arrangements.

**18.2.2022:**  MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 18.2.2022 highlighted about a public meeting organized by the party at Kolasib Diakkawn today. Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, mentioned in his speech that politics touches everyone and everyone suffers under a bad government, whereas, a good government benefit all. He also stated that Mizoram need Congress party to come to power and he invited everyone to form a good government. The Press Release also highlighted the speech made by Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, wherein he alleged that MNF government is barely surviving with the help of a 'Ventilator' and Congress party will again rise up after the MNF time is over. Pu Zodintluanga, MPCC Treasurer, also pointed out in his speech that Congress party is undergoing self-transformation to set up good governance for the people. He also alleged that all those who are capable of resorting to strike are again starting to embark on it under the MNF government.

****22.2.2022:** 5 (five) Congress Party MsLA and 3 (three) ZPM MLsA met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister &amp; House Leader, Mizoram Legislative Assembly, at his Office Chamber today @5:10 p.m. and submitted a joint written petition requesting that the ongoing Budget Session of Mizoram Legislative Assembly be presided by the Deputy Speaker due to alleged involvement of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, in corrupt act in connection with construction of Ngaizawl road, which renders him unfit to preside the House. The joint petition was signed by Pu Zodintluanga Leader, Congress Legislature Party and Pu Lalduhawma, Leader, ZPM Legislature Party.**

**23.2.2022:** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 23.2.2022 highlighted that the party has carefully studied the speech made by the Governor of Mizoram in the Mizoram Legislative Assembly and expressed dissatisfaction over the various steps taken through the ruling Socio-Economic Development Policy (SEDP). It highlighted the fund allocated under SEDP, its further distribution to various departments and expenses incurred out of the SEDP. It compared the NLUP of previous Congress government with the SEDP and alleged that steps taken under the latter were far too few, and it also expressed their surprise that no mention were made about the MNF party's promise on distribution of Rs. 3 lakhs as well as bamboos. It also expressed surprise that accommodation for a central Para Military Force, i.e., BSF, was constructed using SEDP Fund. It further alleged that the MNF government has no intention to take steps to implement its SEDP.

**24.2.2022:** MPCC held its Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting on 24.2.2022 @11:30 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl. The meeting was chaired by Pu Lalsawta, President, and around 10 (ten) members were present. The PAC expressed surprise over a voice record that surfaced which pointed out the financial benefit enjoyed by Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Assembly Speaker, from Khawzawl to Ngaizawl road contract work. It stated that the name of the Speaker had earlier appeared during the inspection of the PMGSY road by Central YMA in January, 2022. It also highlighted the total bandh resorted by the MNF Party in the past against Pu Lalrinliana Sailo on graft charges. It stated that Congress MsLA will resume participating in the proceedings of the Budget Session since Pu Zoramthanga. Chief Minister &amp; House Leader, defended the Speaker whom the people believed to have pocketed Rs. 100 lakhs from the Khawzawl to Ngaizawl road construction work. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the Party today.

****25.2.2022:** MPYCC submitted a written complaint to the Chairperson, Mizoram Lok Ayukta on 25.2.2022 concerning existence of alleged irregularities in the expenses incurred on the Rs. 3,500 lakhs borrowed from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for reconstruction/renovation of 172 (one hundred seventy two) schools by the State government. It also highlighted the findings of MPCC Vigilance Cell from their visit of 15 (schools) renovated/reconstructed out of the said Fund. In this regard, it requested for investigation into the matter and to find out those responsible. A Press Release in this regard was issued by MPYCC later today wherein it also highlighted the statement of Dr. Lalmalsawma, MPYCC President, alleging misuse of funds borrowed from NABARD and the findings of MPYCC Vigilance Cell.**

**28.2.2022:**MPCC Media Department held Press Conference on 26.2.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman, MPCC Media Department presided the Press Conference and 11 (eleven) persons including 6 (six) media persons attended. A Press Statement was issued, wherein they stated the following :-

 (i) Alleged Mizoram Budget 2022-2023 as Chief Minister's Budget  as Major Works amounting to Rs. 962.49 crores and CCS amounting to  Rs. 350 cores were allotted to Finance Department (Chief Minister's  Department) in the new budget.

 (ii) It is expected to face difficulties in payment of salary to the State   government's employees in the coming financial year as the fund  allotted for salary is lesser by Rs. 169.82 crores compared to the  previous budget.

 (iii) Supplementary Budget amounting to Rs. 6025.44 crores has been  available in the new budget, which is 54.04 % out of the previous  Budget i.e., Mizoram Budget, 2021-2022 and it considered the same as  clear indication of financial mismanagement under MNF government.

 (iv) Many families are facing difficulties due to long pending medical  bills amounting to Rs. 40 crores under Mizoram State Health Care  Scheme and it alleged that no action has been taken for solving the  stated problems. It also expressed their surprise for not making  allotment of fund for the said scheme in the new budget.

****7.3.2022:** MPCC Elected Office Bearers called a Press Conference on 5.3.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, and he was accompanied by Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President; Pu Zodintluanga, MLA; Pu C. Ngunlianchunga, MLA and Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA. Pu Lal Thanzara released a book 'That Loh theih Lohna Bawm', written by Pu Lalsawta and published by Pu Lalrindika Ralte. Pu Lalsawta pointed out that they will exercise control over their Candidates from trying to buy electoral victory. He also highlighted their party's resolve to fight smugglings as they are the root cause of the downfall of States. He further said that no Minister and MLA who have earned a bad name will be allowed to hold a position in the State's government if his party formed the Government.**

**14.3.2022**

(a) MPCC called a Press Conference on 12.3.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Department Chairman and 19 (nineteen) persons including 15 media persons were present. A Press Statement was issued wherein it alleged that the MNF government neglect pending MR bills under the Mizoram Healthcare Scheme. It highlighted the gainful financial investments undertaken by the then Congress Ministry using the Corpus Fund of the MSHCS and at the time of the formation of the new MNF government, more than Rs. 155 crores were available under the Corpus Fund. It stated that at present, Rs. 59.63 crores are pending under the MSHCS and no MR bill has been paid during 2021-2022 under the said Scheme. It further stated that the main reason for the huge pendency is the inability of the MNF government to allocate substantial amount of fund under the Scheme. It also stated that clearing of pending MR bills would be given priority if Congress party comes to power again. The Press Statement also highlighted the healthcare schemes implemented by 8 (eight) States across the country. It further alleged that the new rates enforced by the MNF government as fresh registration fees under the Scheme are nothing short of looting of the general public. It also expressed surprise over the presence of the name of Abub Ahmed Majumdar amongst the 8 (eight) suppliers of rice to Mizoram.

(b) MPYCC submitted a written appeal to the Mizoram Lokayukta on 14.3.2022, requesting to investigate into the manner of award of Lengpui Airport Renovation Contract works and the recent collapse of a roof (slab) of the under-construction Airport. It stated that there exist gruesome disregard of 'financial rules' in awarding of the contract and selection of Contractor. It further believed that the Contractor is executing the work in a sub-standard manner since not only the slab had collapsed, but also the RCC columns.

****15.3.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 15.3.2022 stated that 6 (six) MPCC Vigilance Team Members led by Pu Lal Hriatrenga Chhangte, MPCC Secretary &amp; Vice Chairman, Vigilance Cell visited Champhai-Zokhawthar areas during 10-12.3.2022 to study Indo-Myanmar International Trade. It also stated that they held interaction with various stakeholders and Champhai Joint NGO Co-ordination in connection with various imported goods. It further stated that residents of Zokhawthar are facing serious hardship due to halting of border trade. It also urged the State government to take concrete action for immediate resumption of border trade.**

****16.3.2022:** MPCC General Headquarters in its Press Release issued today stated that Trainers' Training Programme on That Loh Theih Lohna Bawm (a book written by Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President) under the guidance of Pu Lalthanzara, Vice President, MPCC was held today at Lalthanhawla Auditorium. It also stated that delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC stated that MPCC has a separate constitution and not relies solely on All India Congress Committee (AICC) constitution. Such being the case, the performance of Central Congress would not have much impact within the state. He also stated that Congress Party has been guided through Committee System and the committee will decide candidate for each constituency in the coming General Election. He also stated that the present 5 (five) Congress MsLA will look after their respective constituency and the rest constituencies will be taken care of by party members. He further stated that good and reliable government is needed by the people of Mizoram, and Congress Party is responsible for providing the same. It also stated that Pu Lalrindika, MLA publisher of That Loh Theih Lohna Bawm book stated that the book urged every individual and party member to be committed to the nation. It further stated that during the function, Pu H. Zairemthanga, Secretary MPCC held devotion and Dr. Lallianchhunga, Spokesperson &amp; Chairman, MPCC Media Department reviewed the stated book.**

****21.3.2022:** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 18.3.2022 urged Pu Lalduhoma, MLA &amp; ZPM Leader, to quit his attempt to dupe the general public by using lies. It stated that the ZPM Leader searched various ways to criticize other political parties in the last Mizoram Legislative Assembly Session and made a wrong statement that NLUP was renamed as NEDP by the Congress party in 2008 General Election, which placed them in power for the next 10 (ten) years. It also alleged the ZPM Leader to have made selected reference on a study conducted on NLUP by Synod Social Front without deliberately citing the relevant year and time so as to deceive the public. It praised the manner of implementation of NLUP by the then Congress government which was implemented without any increase in the State's debt. It also expressed surprise that 'That Loh theih Lohna Bawm', a book written by Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, was vehemently criticized by Pu Lalduhoma. It alleged that Pu Lalduhoma has no firm principle and he is having an outstanding 'talent' in falsely accusing and criticizing others.**

**22.3.2022 :** MPYCC issued a Press Release 22.3.2022 which highlighted the existence of alleged irregularities in renovation and repair works of 2 (two) schools at Thingfal, Lunglei district, using NABARD loan. It stated that from the light of inspection of Thingfal Primary School-III and Middle School by MPYCC and Lunglei Congress Thalai (LDYCC) leaders today, it was found that both the schools were to be renovated/reconstructed with an estimate of Rs. 10 lakhs each and even though ceilings were to be constructed and new doors and windows to be fitted, no such work has been undertaken. It stated that only painting works were done using Distemper at Thingfal Primary School-III and some new tin sheets were fitted and painted at the Middle School. It further mentioned that out of the estimated Rs. 10 lakhs for Thingfal Primary School-III, only Rs. 6 lakhs was received and it was further sold for close to Rs. 3 lakhs. It expressed regret over gruesome misuse of NABARD loan and it urged the government to find out those responsible and award suitable punishment.

****23.3.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 23.3.2022 highlighted that Congress Party in its ongoing 'Chhim Hrut Fehchhuah' (Campaign covering Southern Mizoram) visited and held programmes at Bungtlang South, Serkawr and Tuipang today. It highlighted the speech made by Congress leaders undertaking the campaign wherein Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, stated that Mizoram can rise up like Israel and what the obedient people of the State need is a good leader. He also said that congress party gives due concern to minorities and ADCs since the days of Pu Lal Thanhawla, Ex-MPCC President. Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, also mentioned in his speech that all major developments of the State were brought in by the Congress government. He also said that MNF promised for traffic jam city, elevated road, Rs. 3 lakhs and yet there is no actual fulfilment on ground. Pu Zodintluanga, MLA &amp; MPCC Treasurer, also stated that minorities finds solace whenever Congress party is in power. The Press Release also highlighted that 3233 (three thousand two hundred thirty three) new members joined the Congress party at Bungtlang South and they were inducted into the party by MPCC President.**

25.3.2022 : (a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 25.3.2022 highlighted the speech made by 3 (three) MPCC leaders in the ongoing 'Chhim Hrut Fehchhuah' programmes held today at various villages in between Siaha and Hnahthial, viz., Bualpui NG, Siachangkawn, South Lungpher, etc. Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, mentioned that the then Congress government could set up Falkawn Referral Hospital and Medical College as a result of its firm commitment even though the same was neglected by the MNF government, and all major infrastructural developments in sports were brought in by Congress government. He also said that MNF is quick in words with little actions and even though it used COVID-19 as an excuse for all things, yet it did not cause obstruction in favoring Kamrula. Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, also said that MNF greatly enjoyed the benefits of the sound financial management of Pu Lalsawta, the then Finance Minister, and it faces problems ever since it made Budget on their own. He also highlighted various financial problems under the MNF government. The Press Release also highlighted the speech of Pu Zodintluanga, MPCC Treasurer.
(b) MPCC Media Department in another Press Release issued on 25.3.2022 slammed Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Sports Minister, for having told utter lies to the people. It stated that the Sports Minister had falsely said at Mizo Hnam Run on 21.3.2022 that development works continued without any break under the MNF government and the debts of the State has not increased under the MNF government. He also said that Congress government did not construct any new road while it implemented its NLUP. It alleged that Pu Zoramthanga's led government took no major initiatives besides wasteful distribution of more than Rs. 100 lakhs to party members under PAHOSS, drain of finance to look after SEDP Boards, pending Health Care bills, etc. It also alleged that no major steps have been taken under the State Fund by the MNF government other than repair of roads out of the funds left behind by the previous Congress government. In this regard, it asked whether the Sports Minister was sleep talking or did not look into the State Budget at all. It urged the Sports Minister to know that the debt of the government has increased by Rs. 5238 crores during the MNF rule.

**24.3.3022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 24.3.3022 highlighted the speech made by MPCC leaders in the ongoing 'Chhim Hrut Fehchhuah' programme held today at Siaha Traffic Point. Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, stated that Congress party has undergone great transformation and it will form a good government wherein corrupt people will find no place in it. He also invited the people of Mara District to work with Congress party in the coming MADC Election. Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, also said that Congress party always keeps its words and it is inappropriate to work with the BJP, which is based on Hindu religion and one that causes problems to the Christians. He also said that MNF has not fulfilled its promise to distribute Rs. 3 lakhs till date. The Press Release also highlighted the speech made by Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, MLA &amp; MPCC Treasurer and Pu Ngunlianchunga, MLA.

**7.4.2022 :**

(a) MPCC Media Department issued a Press Release today, i.e., 7.4.2022 wherein it welcomed increase in enrolment of students at various government schools. At the same time, it stated that the reason cited by the Education Minister for the above increase cannot be wholly accepted. It stated that despite the Education Minister's claim that the above increase in enrolment is due to renewed peoples' faith in the government, the main reasons for the above increase are irregular opening of schools during the last 2 years of pandemic, uncertainties about regular opening of schools in the coming days and adverse economic impact of COVID-19 on many families. It alleged that despite recruitment of a good number of non-permanent teachers, there is no reform in the educational system and many families affected by the pandemic could no longer afford private schools. In view of the above, it alleged that the Education Minister's statement was an unfounded attempt to mislead the people. The Press Release also highlighted about alleged existence of gross irregularities in repair/renovation of schools using NABARD Fund and appointment of teachers without floating any advertisements.
(b) MPYCC Headquarters in its Press Release issued today, i.e., 7.4.2022 highlighted that Charge Handing Over function between the outgoing MPYCC leaders and the new leaders was held today and following are the new leaders :-

 President  - Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka

 Vice President - Pu Laltawnliana

 Treasurer  - Pu Ngurdingpuia Pachuau

 Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka delivered words of encouragements to members present in the function. He also said that Congress party could secure a vote share of 29.98% in the last 2018 General Election, when the party was at its lowest level, and there is no cause for nervousness and the party is reviving and preparing to achieve new progress. The Press Release also highlighted that Thalai/Youth Block election is intended to be held before 15.5.2022

**8.4.2022 :**  (a) MPCC organized a 'Political Session' under the chairmanship of Pu Vanremsanga, GS, MPCC today, i.e., 8.4.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 100 (one hundred) members were present. Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC inducted Pu Lalhmingliana, Tlangnuam Vengthar, Aizawl and Pu FH. Lalzarliana, Chaltlang Dawrkawn, into the Congress party and also delivered a speech.

 (b) MPCC in its statement issued highlighted about a programme on 'Presentation of Ambulance to Group YMA Lungsen' held on 8.4.2022 at YMA Hall, Lungsen North Branch, wherein Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, MLA presented an Ambulance to Group YMA Lungsen. Delivering a speech, the MLA alleged that the MNF government has not rendered any help to the people of the constituency during the last 4 (four) years. He further alleged that Corn seeds are being distributed under SEDP without any careful consideration to people having no field to plant the seeds.

**12.4.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued ON 12.4.2022 alleged that Dr. ZR Thiamsanga, MLA, has made incorrect statement about MSHCS on 8.4.2022 at Mizo Hnam Run, Aizawl. It admitted that the MSHCS was started by the then MNF government on 1.4.2008, however, people are aware that the scheme was systematized and implemented by the Congress government and bills were cleared without any undue delay. It alleged that the smooth implementation of the MSHCS was ruined by the MNF government. It stated that Dr. Thiamsanga made incorrect statement when he said that Rs. 50 crores was placed under the Corpus Fund of the MSHCS at the very beginning. It stated that as per the RTI reply given by the Finance Department on 5.4.2022, Rs. 117.80 lakhs was placed as MSHCS Health Corpus Fund for improvement of Health Sector under the ADB Project Mizoram Public Resource Management. It alleged that the said Rs. 50 crores was actually an interest accruing from the money deposited at the Bajaj Allianz in the names of the children of deposed MNF Vice President Pu R. Tlanghmingthanga. It further alleged that the statement made by Dr. ZR Thiamsanga that there would not be any pending Health Care bills had there been no COVID-19 was also a baseless attempt to misguide the public. It stated that the Finance Department continued to give Corpus Fund interest of Rs. 4 crores every quarterly regardless of COVID-19 pandemic, and the Health Care Fund has no connection whatsoever with the COVID-19.

****19.4.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 19.4.2022 urged Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Aizawl East-II MLA/Minister, to reconsider whether it is the Congress or the MNF government who has a better Finance Minister. It highlighted and reacted to the speech of the Minister at the Political Training organised by Aizawl East-II Block on 14.4.2022. It asked whether Pu Robert Romawia Royte has lost his mind when he alleged that Pu Lalsawta, the new Congress President &amp; Ex-Finance Minister, will in no way be able to respond to the needs of the people of Mizoram just as he was unable to cater the requirements of the people of Aizawl East-II constituency. It stated that people know well about Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister and the laudable performances of the Pu Lalsawta, Ex-Finance Minister. It stated that the present Chief Minister spoke about creation of traffic jam free Aizawl city and relocation of Assam Rifles during the MNF Aizawl East-II Block Conference in 2018, which remain unfulfilled till date. It also highlighted that Pu Lalsawta, Ex-Finance Minister, has brought in many developmental assets for Aizawl East-II and the financial position of the State has greatly improved during his tenure as Finance Minister with no pending healthcare bills. **

**21.4.2022 :** Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA called a Press Conference on 21.4.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. He was accompanied by Prof. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Chairman and 10 (ten) media persons attended the Press Conference. A Press Statement was issued, wherein he stated the following:

 (i) Insufficient fund has been allotted by the Mizoram government under Salary Head in the 2022-2023 Budget. The same seldom occurred as fund under Salary is expected to increase year by year due to increase of increment and DA. It also stated that Salary under Budget estimates for 2022-2023 is reduced by Rs. 176.89 crores as compared to the previous financial year i.e., 2021-2022.
 (ii) In 2019-2020, Budget estimates of Salary was increased by Rs. 500.47 crores compared to the previous financial year i.e., 2018-2019.

 (iii) Budget is an estimated expenditure and any differences in the estimates are to be adjusted in the Supplementary Demands, which will later be passed by the Assembly. However, Budget Estimates for Salary could be estimated properly as the number of government employees are already known. It alleged the current budget as an attempt to deceive the public by showing more revenue expenditure.


 (iv) It strongly urged Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister, who also holds Finance Department portfolio, to clarify the reason for such reduction of Budget estimates for Salary under the present Budget .

**22.4.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) held Friday Political Session on 22.4.2022 at Congress Bhavan. Pu H. Lalzamlova, General Secretary, MPCC presided the function and around 80 (eighty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalthanzara, Vice President MPCC stated that denial of MNF alliance with BJP by Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister in his speech at southern area is a blatant lie. He also alleged all MNF candidates at the 2018 General Election of receiving financial assistance from BJP, which was distributed by Shri Himanta Biswa Sharma, Assam Chief Minister. He further stated that incident of collapse of Lengpui Airport should be thoroughly investigated by an Enquiry Committee, if the same is occurred during their regime. A Press Release in this regard was issued.

**25.4.2022 :** 2 (two) Congress Party AMC Councillors, viz., Pu Rosiamngheta and Pi Zodingpuii called a Press Conference today, i.e., 25.4.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and around 15 (fifteen) persons including media persons were present. A joint Press Statement was issued which highlighted that no additional power has been conferred to AMC under the MNF government and it has become a puppet of the ruling MNF government. It stated that the AMC has been neglected and disregarded and its autonomy gradually eroded under the MNF government.

****29.4.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 29.4.2022 stated that Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, Leader Congress Legislature Party (CLP) and MPCC Treasurer inaugurated Campaign Office of Pu K.H. Beihlo, their official candidate of Siaha South II. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Zodintluanga expressed gratitude to the people of Mara district for electing congress candidates in previous elections. He also stated that Congress party used to stand firm in their election promises and they used to undertake policies and developmental works, which could reach to the poorer sections. He further stated that MNF formed government due to their election promise of distributing Rs. 3 lakhs under SEDP. However, implementation of the same by way of distributing corn seeds surprised and shocked the people of Mizoram, and the same indicated their unreliability. He further appealed residents of MADC to vote Congress candidates.**

(b) MPCC Friday Political Session was held on 29.4.2022 at Congress Bhavan. Pu C. Dothansanga, General Secretary presided the session and around 50 (fifty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC expressed regret over difficulties faced by the public due to huge pending of Healthcare Bills. He also stated that during the previous Congress government, there had not been any pending healthcare bills. He further stated that the present Health Care needs bailout and in order to execute the same, Congress should form government. Dr. Henry Zodinliana Pachuau, President, All India Professional Congress (AIPC) President also gave a lecture on ' Development of Aizawl city and its impact on earning livelihood of the residents and governance of the state administration'. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.

****4.5.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 3.5.2022 stated that Congress Party Street Campaign was held at various places in Siaha town the same day, and Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC and other party leaders delivered speeches at the function. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President stated that Congress party brought various developments into the state and Central Congress is also concerned about minority upliftment. He also stated that Pu Jawaharlal Nehru the then Prime Minister visited Mizoram in the year 1952 on the occasion of newly created Mizo District Council. He also stated that if the Congress party is in power, they will develop the health care scheme and necessary action would be taken for sustainable employment for the youths. It further stated that Pu Zodintluanga, CLP Leader and Pu S. Hiato, Ex-Minister &amp; President, Mara District Congress Committee also delivered speeches and Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA, Pu KT Rokhaw, MLA and other MPCC leaders attended the function.**

(b) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) in its Press Release issued on 3.5.2022 appealed the people under Mara Autonomous District Council (MADC) to cast their vote in favour of Congress candidates in the forthcoming MADC Election, which is scheduled to be held on 5.5.2022 so as to form good and public governance. It also stated that Congress party used to form government in MADC and expressed gratitude to the people of MADC for putting their trust to the Congress party. It further appealed them to reject BJP, who suppressed Christianity within the country. It also accused MNF Party as frequently disrupting Autonomous District Council (ADC) government, when they are in power at the state, and there has been rampant corruption under MNF government and the state financial position is in danger. Such being the case, it also appealed the people of MADC to reject MNF party.

**10.5.2022 :** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 10.5.2022 welcomed and expressed gratitude for successful and peaceful conduct of MADC Election, 2022 and it conveyed best wishes to the people of MADC for establishment of a stable government. It stated that the party started afresh in the election as Congress MsDC joined the BJP in 2019 and it considered winning 4 (four) seats as a sign of people's faith in the party, and it thanked the people of Siaha district in this regard.

****6.5.2022 :** MPCC General Headquarters held its Friday Political Session on 6.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and Rev. Dr. LR Colney, Ex-Mizoram BJP Vice President was inducted into Congress party. The session was led by Pu KVL Siamkima, MPCC Gen. Secretary and Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President delivered a speech wherein he pointed out the need to play politics with humility. He said that Congress party should serve the people with humility and all Congress members should be patient and should live humbly. Pu Lalrochhara, Secretary, Media Cell &amp; Executive Committee Member, MPCC, also gave his MADC Election Campaign 2022 Report, wherein he predicted the electoral outcome as under:**

 BJP : 7 - 13 seats. MNF : 9 - 15 seats.

 INC : 4 - 8 seats. ZPM : 0 - 1 seat.

 A Press Release in this regard was also issued by the party which also highlighted the speech of the above-mentioned newly inducted member. It also stated that in addition to Rev. Dr. LR Colney, Pu Lalthianghlima, College Veng , Aizawl and his 5 (five) family members were also inducted into the party.

**13.5.2022 :**

(a) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on the evening of 12.5.2022 stated that MPYCC leaders led by Dr. Lalmalsawm Nghaka, President, met Pu John Neihlaia (IPS), IGP, yesterday, in defence of Hav. Dengthangpuia who got suspended and 3 (three) others who are being directed to submit their explanation in connection with a 'video record' about their murky water source that went viral in social medias. It stated that the IGP told them that he will take action on the matter. It also expressed regret that police personnel deployed at the border face disciplinary action over small matters and it demanded the government to revoke the above disciplinary orders.

(b) MPCC General Headquarters held a 'political session' at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhavan, Aizawl on 13.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. The programme was led by Pu MS. Dawngliana, MPCC Secretary and around 100 (one hundred) members were present. Pu John Rotluangliana, PAC Member, delivered a speech encouraging the party members present to give their best efforts as the general election is drawing near.

**17.5.2022 :**

(a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 17.5.2022 expressed serious concern over the cancellation of flights at Lengpui Airport due to damage of the airport's runway by rain on 17.5.2022, and alleged the reason to be act of omission on the part of the MNF government. It stated that there are potholes in the airport's runway at 3 (three) places, as a result of which the Airport Authority of India closed the runway. It further stated that the MNF government, in its aim of making financial gain, refused to let Company having requisite expertise to undertake runway works and hence the runway requires to be repaired again due to sub-standard work of the runway. It also alleged that MNF government did not give due attention to the Airport Engineers' earlier requests for repair of the runway and damage of the runway even before the advent of main monsoon season is something that cannot be explained, and it is clearly the fault of the MNF government. It demanded the government to immediately undertake necessary repair works and to find out those responsible for poor maintenance of the runway and to impose suitable punishment to them.

(b) Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC (Camp : New Delhi) issued a statement on 17.5.2022 which stated that the emergency meeting of Congress PAC decided against formation of any post-poll alliance with either the BJP or MNF to form a MADC government and the same was clearly informed to MDCC leaders and a press statement was also duly issued. It stated that despite the above, they came to know about the formation of Joint Congress-MNF Legislature government with Congress MDC as the CEM. While welcoming the formation of MADC government, it expressed serious concern over the step taken by MDCC leaders and elected MDC against the decision of Congress party. In this regard, it stated that 'Show Cause notice' will be issued and thereafter, further course of action will be considered by the party leaders.

(c) MPCC called a Press Conference on 14.5.2022 under the guidance of Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Chairman, at Aizawl Press Club and around 10 (ten) persons were present. A Press Statement was issued which stated that the Political Affairs Committee of the party has decided not to enter into any post-poll alliance in the MADC. It stated that Congress and BJP are 2 (two) major political parties of the country standing in opposition to each other with distinct policies and hence, formation of any government in coalition with the BJP is something that cannot be considered. It stated that Congress party is not solely after power as its main aim is to create a good government. It also stated that as BJP and MNF are partners at the NDA and NEDA, it is believed that they will easily work together at the MADC. It also praised the 4 (four) elected Congress MDC for their dedication, sacrifice and respect for top leaders of the congress party.
**20.5.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 20.5.2022 highlighted that the MPCC Political Affairs Committee (PAC) Emergency Meeting held today directed the MPCC Disciplinary Committee to serve a Show Cause Notice to District Congress leaders of MADC and 4 (four) elected Congress MDCs to explain as to why they formed the government with the MNF as against the decision of the PAC.

**23.5.2022 :**

(a) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 21.5.2022 expressed sympathy to vegetable sellers of Aizawl main market whose vegetables were washed away by flash flood. It stated that had the MNF government completed the construction of the market building using the money allocated under NEDP by the previous Congress government, such tragic incident would not have been faced by women vegetable vendors and other manual labourers.

(b) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 23.5.2022 stated that Mizo farmers face difficulties in selling their home-grown Watermelon due to large scale import of Watermelon from Myanmar and other states, and Watermelons produced by Lamzawl village, Saitual district are being left to rot. It stated that locally produced Watermelons are being sold at extremely nominal rate. It also stated that illegal import of Areca Nut also creates problems to local farmers under the present government and Grape growers of Hnahlan areas are also facing difficulties. In this regard, it expressed regret that the government is unable to help out farmers who are striving hard to become successful.

**24.5.2022 :** As per input, MPCC Disciplinary Committee sent a letter (via Speed Post) to the 4 (four) elected INC MDCs of MADC on 24.5.2022 seeking explanation for their intention to form the MADC government together with the MNF party, which is against the decision of the Congress party's Public Affairs Committee (PAC) and the public announcement made to this effect by the MPCC. It also stated their expectation to receive their replies within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of receipt of the letter.

****25.5.2022 :** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 25.5.2022 highlighted that MPYCC leaders visited Mizoram Health Care Society Office on the issue of Rs.71 crores pending healthcare bills. It stated that Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President and other leaders discussed the matter with office employees and as per information provided under the RTI Act, Rs.712,184,104/- is lying pending as on 30.4.2022. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka expressed regret over the pending Medical Reimbursement (MR) bills of people who registered themselves under the scheme as a 'Safety Net'. He also attributed the reason to be extremely high Non-Plan Expenditure and alleged that the Chief Minister cum Finance Minister has completely failed the people. He also demanded the Chief Minister to immediately clear all pending MR bills. He further stated that there was no pending healthcare bill under the previous Congress government.**

**28.5.2022 :**

(a) As per input, Congress Party intends to organize public meeting on 28.5.2022 @ 8:00 AM - 10:00 AM at New Market, Aizawl and Pu H. Rohluna, General Secretary, MPYCC and Pu Rosiamngheta, Secretary, MPCC &amp; AMC Councillor will deliver speech. The public meeting will be organized in protest against the alleged huge delay in the construction of New Market Main Building and in defense of the cause of vegetable vendors and other depending on the market for their livelihood.

(b) MPCC held its Congress Friday Political Session under the chairmanship of Pu James Thanghmingmawia, Secretary MPCC on 27.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 60 (sixty) members were present. Delivering a speech, Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, MLA &amp; Treasurer, MPCC stated that Congress is unique as it is the only party which step aside and gave up power and authority to bring about peace and security. He also highlighted the importance of sound financial management of the state and cited good works done by the previous Congress government, such as distribution of Rs.30000/- under NLUP, setting of Medical College and Tuirial Hydel Project. He also asked the MNF government whether poor people have received any benefits under the MNF government, whereabouts of elevated roads and any instance of distribution of Rs.3 lakhs. He also said that sound financial management is needed to have a strong financial position. He further said that ZPM has no more progress to make and Congress Party is undergoing massive transformation. He also invited Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister to have a joint inspection of developmental works carried out under Aizawl East II Constituency and compare his works with those of Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President &amp; ex-MLA of the Constituency. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party.

**30.5.2022 :**

(a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 28.5.2022 highlighted that a programme was organized at New Market, Aizawl the same morning in support and defence of more than 2000 (two thousand) people whose livelihood got affected by non-resumption of construction of New Market Building. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu H. Rohluna, GS MPCC, criticized the MNF government for neglecting people depending on the New Market for their livelihood despite the availability of funds for construction of the building. The PR also highlighted the speech of Pu Rosiamngheta, AMC Councillor &amp; Secretary MPCC and Pu TT Zothansanga, GS MPCC.

(b) Mizoram Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee in its Press Release issued on 30.5.2022 offered condolences to the children and families of Pi Rosangzuali, Serchhip Dinthar Veng, who was brutally murdered inside her own residence on 29.5.2022. It strongly demanded the authorities to award appropriate punishment to the culprit.

****1.6.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 1.6.2022 highlighted that the party successfully completed its 'Tomir Fehchhuah' (May Campaign) during which various Congress Block and Unit of undivided Aizawl District were visited by MPCC leaders divided into 36 (thirty six) groups. It further stated that the theme of the campaign was 'Party insawhngheh and Sorkar tura inbuatsaih' (consolidation of the party and preparation for forming the government) and they highlighted their intention to address the Healthcare problems, financial crisis and the need for Congress party to form the government as a way forward for Mizoram. The PR further highlighted that no one is allowed to look after a particular constituency, except the 5 (five) sitting Congress MLA, and party leaders will care for all the constituencies and will field good and patriotic candidates who will win the election.**

****3.6.2022 :** MPCC General Headquarters held its Political Session on 3.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan Golden Hall, Aizawl and around 60 (sixty) members were present. The session was led by Pu LT. Hrangchal, General Secretary, MPCC and Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President and Pu John Siamkunga, General Secretary, MPCC delivered speeches. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party today which mainly highlighted the speech of the MPCC President wherein he has highlighted the need to win the 2023 General Election for the sake of the people of Mizoram. He expressed concerns that if MNF continue to be in power, the condition of Mizoram will deteriorate so much that it might even become unfit for living. He further put his trust upon the Mizo people to create a great state/land. He also said that power is not the sole aim of the Congress party and they rather preparing to form a good government. He further stated that environmental degradations and depletion of ground water source will be due priority once they form the government.**

**6.6.2022 :**

(a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 4.6.2022 stated that Pu Lalrindika Ralte, Hachhek Constituency MLA, visited various villages of South Block area under his constituency as a part of MPCC Tomir Fehchhuah (May Campaign). It highlighted the statement of the MLA wherein he has mentioned that government's money is public money, contributed by the people by way of payment of direct and indirect taxes in all purchases. He further stated that government's money is not a Party Fund and it should not be used for playing politics.
(b) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 4.6.2022 stated that Pu Lalnuntawma Fanai, the host of 'Zoram Kalsiam' (Zonet Local Cable Television programme) interviewed Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President wherein the latter has stated that the words of ZPM Val Upa Council (VUC) are to be followed/obeyed after the party comes to power. It stated that as per the statement of the ZPM President, it is clear there is no new system or method under the ZPM Party. It alleged that ZPM MsLA enthusiastically received their salaries even though the VUC directed their MsLA to oppose hike in MLA salaries. It further stated that ZPM inducted 873 (eight hundred seventy three) voters in the run-up to recent MADC election, and yet it managed to secure only a total of 462 (four hundred sixty two) votes in the said election and this shows that the party is resorting to fake induction and deception.

(c) MPCC in its Press Release issued on 6.6.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, inducted 59 (fifty nine) voters under Thingdawl Unit VIII into their party fold in a function held today at Highway Tourist Lodge, Thingdawl. Delivering a speech, the MPCC President stated their intention to make the State where the hardworking people could succeed. He also said that Congress party will make use of land and the people by giving due importance to the environmental conservation. Pu H. Rohluna, MPCC General Secretary also delivered a speech wherein he has alleged that corruption has become rampant again under the present government just as it was during their previous Ministry. He also said that even though Rs.3641 lakhs was allocated under NEDP by the previous Congress government for construction of New Market Building at Aizawl, the present MNF government is unable to complete the said construction work till date. 
**7.6.2022 :**

(a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 7.6.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA, Hachhek Constituency attended Kawrthah Zone Football Tournament Final as Chief Guest today. Delivering a speech before the final kick-off, the Chief Guest pointed out that Mizo youths can be successful in sports if they have aspiration. Pu Jeje Lalpekhlua, former captain of Indian Football Team who accompanied the MLA, also delivered a speech wherein he encouraged the people present with his humble beginning as a footballer.

(b) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 7.6.2022 demanded the government to immediately announce its decision on grape wine. It stated that grape wine seizure recently made by the Excise &amp; Narcotics Department as per the instruction of higher authority causes problems to the grape growers of Champhai and Hnahlan areas. It also stated that while Dr. K. Beichhua, E&amp;N Minister, said that grape wine were 'accidentally' seized during anti-liquor drive carried out by the Excise department, the statement made by the Excise department on 6.6.2022 stated that any liquid containing alcohol can be seized under the MLP Act 2019. It further stated that while the Excise Minister stated before the media persons on 2.6.2022 that grape wine bottles were found along with branded liquor and foreign wine when the raid was conducted, the shop owners of Millennium Centre from where the above seizures were made told leading Mizo newspaper that the above statement of Minister was not true. In this regard, it demanded the Excise Minister to offer an apology to the people of Mizoram.

**13.6.2022 :** MPCC called a Press Conference on 13.6.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Chairman and 20 (twenty) persons including 12 (twelve) media persons were present. A Press Statement was issued demanding the Chief Minister to offer an apology over the wrong statement that he has made concerning Mizoram Health Care Scheme (MSHS) at the Federation of Samagra Employee Assembly, held at Vanapa Hall, Aizawl on 10.7.2022. It stated that the CM told a blatant lie when he said that the Congress Party did not allocate any fund under the MSHCS while they were in power for 10 years and it considered his statement as attempt to disgrace the Congress party and misguide the public. It further stated that the Chief Minister's lie was clearly shown by the information furnished under RTI Act by the Finance Department on 5.4.2022 which stated that Rs.117.80 crores was initially deposited under the Corpus Fund of MSHCS on 30.3.2010, and it accumulated to Rs.15,556 lakhs at the end of December, 2018. It also stated that there has never been any pending MSHCS bill during the Congress Ministry, whereas, Rs.7121 lakhs was lying pending under the present MNF government as on 30.4.2022. It further stated that Congress party will take necessary step if the Chief Minister fails to tender his apology in this regard.

 In connection with the above, Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Spokesperson and 4 (four) other leaders of MPCC Media Department submitted a letter to the CM Office today.
****14.6.2022 :** MPCC held its Office Bearers' Meeting on 14.6.2022 @ 12:00 noon at the residence of Pu Zodintluanga, MLA &amp; MPCC Treasurer, Durtlang, Aizawl. The meeting was chaired by Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President and 91 (ninety one) members were present. The meeting reportedly discussed about Chakma Autonomous District Congress Committee, tenure of present MPCC Executive Committee which will come to an end on 24.7.2022, preparation of MPCC Election Manifesto, etc.**

**17.6.2022 :**MPCC held its Friday Political Session on 17.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. The session was led by Pu Albert Lalthlamuana, Secretary MPCC and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Addressing the gathering, Pu Lalsawta, President, expressed gratitude to all party members who have selflessly took part in Congress Party 'Tomir Fehchhuah' (May Campaign). He said that the party is witnessing great transformation and he urged the members to let their actions speak rather than words. He also believed that people trust no one other than Congress party to save Mizoram. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party.

****20.6.2022 :** (a) MPCC called a Press Conference on 18.6.2022 @ 12:30 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and 10 (ten) media persons were present. The conference was led by Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman MPCC Media and a Press Statement was issued which stated that the MNF government leaders do not hesitate to tell lies to cover their poor performance concerning Mizoram State Health Care Scheme (MSHCS). It highlighted the steps taken by the previous Congress government to augment healthcare scheme in Mizoram. It stated that Congress government allocated Rs.539.46 lakhs during 2018-2019 to MSHCS, in addition to Rs.149.6 crores available under the Corpus Fund of the Scheme. It further stated that healthcare bills amounting to Rs.71,21,84,104 are lying pending as on 30.4.2022 due to the negligence of the Chief Minister.**

(b) MPYCC submitted a letter to the Hon'ble Chief Minister on 20.6.2022 @ 12:00 noon wherein it demanded for announcement of total fund available under MSHCS including interest, release of all pending healthcare bills, announce the whereabouts of fund allocated under SEDP to provide medical coverage up to Rs.2 lakhs for each patient, whether healthcare funds are deposited in banks for the interest of certain individuals, and the reason for depreciating Rs.122.39 crores allocated by the previous Congress government and alleging that not a single rupee was allocated to MSHCS. It demanded the Chief Minister to make explanation on the above points before 20.7.2022. The said letter was received by Secretary to the CM.

****21.6.2022 :** MPYCC issued a Press Release on 21.6.2022 wherein it thanked the government for prompt issuance of release order amounting to Rs.4 crores to the Mizoram State Health Care Society (MSHCS). It stated that the Chief Minister &amp; Finance Minister issued the said release order after the MPYCC served an ultimatum to the Chief Minister on 20.6.2022 demanding for payment of more than Rs.71 cores pending healthcare bills before 20.7.2022. It stated thatmore than Rs.67 crores would still be lying pending and it once again demanded the government to clear all the pending bills before the said deadline.**

****24.6.2022 :** MPCC held its Political Session on 24.6.2022 @11:00 a.m. at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 80 (eighty) members were present. The session was chaired by Pu Chalrosanga Ralte, GS MPCC and Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC inducted 15 (fifteen) voters into Congress party. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalsawta encouraged the newly inducted members to stand for the needy people as being a blessing for others is a feature of Congress party. He also said that many good people will continue to join the party. While highlighting that only one Christmas is left to be celebrated under the present government, he invited the gathering to be trustworthy and bring hope to others so that the people of Mizoram need not face another hardship under the MNF government. A Press Release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

****24.6.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee in its Press Release issued on 27.6.2022 stated that MPYCC held Silver Jubilee celebration of Martyr Memorial Stone at CTI Sesawng the same day. It also stated that Martyr Memorial Stone was laid by Pu Lalthanhawla, the then Chief Minister on 27.7.1997 and it was established for all mizos, who sacrificed their precious lives during Mizoram crisis period 1966-86. As many as 1168 (one thousand one hundred sixty eight) Martyr names were engraved, and in the year 2014, skeleton of Sergeant Lalduha was buried at the same area. It further stated that Pu Zodintluanga, Treasurer, MPCC &amp; Leader, CLP and Dr. Lalmalsawma, President MPYCC delivered speeches, and MPYCC President and former Presidents MPYCC laid wreath to pay tribute to the Martyrs.**

****01.6.2022 :** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 30.6.2022 highlighted Pu Lal Thanhawla, ex-CM and ex-Congress President, who sacrificed the Chief Minister's chair to pave the way for Mizo peace, was felicitated at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhavan at the initiative of MPYCC. Delivering a speech, the ex-CM gave an account of how the State entered into a period of insurgency and how the CM's seat was sacrificed for having peace. He also said that Pu Lalduhoma was sent to London by leaders of Mizoram Congress party to call back Pu Laldenga, and not by Pi Indira Gandhi.**

****5.7.2022 :** 7 (seven) leaders of MPYCC led by Pu Laltawnliana, MPYCC Vice President visited Mizoram Police force deployed at Sabualmual, Vairengte area, at Mizoram-Assam border on 5.7.2022 and handed over 30 (thirty) cases of drinking water, water filter and other food items. They were received by SI C. Lalhuma, Post Commander and party and MPYCC leaders were informed about the availability of sufficient drinking water at the post. Pu Laltawnliana stated that the visit was undertaken after Vanglaini newspaper published about how they had to filter water for drinking and to show that they care for police personnel who perform their duties for the State in a difficult terrain and harsh weather condition.**

****7.7.2022 :**MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 7.7.2022 highlighted the visit of Mizoram by Pu Nur Sofique Wazid, National Secretary, Indian Youth Congress, in-charge of Mizoram &amp; Meghalaya on 6.7.2022. It stated that he was received by MPYCC leaders on his arrival and he also met Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, and discussed ways for the party to come back to power in Mizoram and other matters concerning development of the youths. It stated that MPYCC leaders held a meeting with him today wherein the visiting IYC Secretary pointed out that it is the intention of the BJP to transform India into a Hindu kingdom. He also said that MNF party came to power with the help and support of the BJP and it is a faithful member of NEDA and NDA. He further said that MNF government is failing in financial management; the State debt is increasing heavily and there are problems of timely payment of salaries to government employees and pending healthcare bills.**

**8.7.2022 :** MPCC held its Friday Political Session at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhavan, Aizawl on 8.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. The session was led by Pu C Lalpianthanga, GS MPCC and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Delivering a speech, Pu V Lalthazuala, GS MPCC, spoke about the uniqueness of Congress party, its party discipline and unity and he also criticized MNF and ZPM stating that power and authority lies at the hands of few top leaders of the party.

**11.7.2022 :** MPYCC issued a Press Release on 11.7.2022 wherein it expressed regret that bus services will be available for the students of Mizoram University only up to the end of July, 2022 and it demanded the government to take swift action before the students face more serious problem. It expressed their desire for issuance of 'Bus Pass' to school and college students and in case of infallibility to do so, to make arrangement with Aizawl City Bus Owners Association (ACBOA) for plying of bus service from Aizawl Temple Square to MZU.

**12.7.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 12.7.2022 expressed regret over the demise of Pi Lalhriatpuii, a grape wine seller at Millennium Centre, Aizawl, whose wine worth Rs.22 lakhs were seized by the Excise Department on 27.5.2022, and it conveyed condolences to the bereaved family. In this regard, it demanded Dr. K. Beichhua, E&amp;N Minister, to take moral responsibility and resign from his post. It also demanded the E&amp;N Minister and Dr. ZR Thiamsanga, MLA to immediately return all the wine seized by the Excise Department. It further demanded the government to pay compensation to the family of Pi Lalhriatpuii who had suffered mental agony due to the above seizure and also to all the other victims of the said seizure.

 In this connection, MPYCC submitted a letter to the Hon'ble Minister, Excise &amp; Narcotics Department wherein it demanded the government to pay Rs.100 lakhs as compensation to the family of the late Pi Lalhriatpuii. It also stated that necessary action will be taken in case of failure to give the compensation.

**13.7.2022:** Dt.13.7.2022, around 50 (fifty) members of MPYCC gathered in front of the main gate of New Secretariat Complex on 13.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. They displayed black flag and shouted slogans demanding the government to give compensation to the bereaved family of Pi Lalhriatpuii (a grape wine seller at Millenium Centre, whose wine worth Rs.22 lakhs were seized by the Excise Department). In case of failure to pay the compensation, they demanded for resignation of the Excise Minister. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President; Pu Siamkima, MPYCC GS and Pu K. Lalnunmawia, MPCC GS, delivered speeches in today's demonstration.

 Since they received no response from Dr. K. Beichhua, Excise Minister, they went back to Congress Bhavan @ 4:00 p.m. to discuss their further course of action. MPYCC Leaders also stated their intention to take further course of action.

 Police personnel were deployed at the area and no untoward incident occurred.

**14.7.2022 :** MPYCC held its Executive Committee Meeting on 14.7.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 25 (twenty five) members were present. Chaired by Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President, the meeting decided to put up posters in Aizawl City area on 15.7.2022 and to offer their condolence to the bereaved family of the deceased Pi Lalhriatpuii. They also decided to await the reactions of the public particularly in social media platforms and accordingly decide their next course of action.

****15.7.2022 :** MPCC held its Friday Political Session on 15.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 80 (eighty) members were present. The session was led by Pu Vanlalruata, Secretary MPCC, and Pu Lalsawta, President announced the decision of the PAC on MADC wherein he has stated that the PAC Meeting held on 12.7.2022 carefully deliberated the findings and submission of the Disciplinary Action Committee and resolved that PAC stand firm in its stand against formation of an alliance with the MNF by 4 Congress MDC. Delivering a speech, Pu KS. Thanga, PAC Member, Ex-Minister, stated that Congress Party will not sell liquor again and he appealed the Church to accept their apology. He said that the present MNF government is failing in financial management and also expressed concern that the State might become 'Sri Lanka of the East' instead of 'Switzerland of the East'. He also made comparison between the previous Congress government and the present MNF government in terms of financial conditions of the State. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.**
**18.7.2022 :** (a) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 16.7.2022 highlighted that its leaders visited Tawngtai Bethel Camping Centre, Sakawrtuichhun, Aizawl, on having learnt that the power supply to the Centre got abruptly disconnected. Dr. Lalmalsawma, MPYCC President, stated that there are nearly 800 (eight hundred) inmates at the said Centre and he appealed the government to grant highest possible concession to them and to re-connect the power supply. Pu T.T. Zohmingthanga, TBCC Founder, also informed the MPYCC leaders about the huge pending power bills and their inability to clear the same due to financial constraint.

(b) MPYCC issued a Press Release on 18.7.2022 which highlighted that an 'ultimatum' was submitted to the Chief Minister of Mizoram today urging and requesting to fulfil the demands of employees under the NHM. It urges the government to fulfil the commitments that it has made to the CYMA, which acted as mediator in the recent standoff between the government and the NEUM. It also reminded the Chief Minister about the 5-points demands of the MPYCC concerning the Mizoram Health Care Society (MHCS) and demand letter submitted to Dr. K . Beichhua, E&amp;N Minister, for payment of Rs.100 lakhs to Pi Lalhriatpuii (L), Dawrpui Vengthar, Aizawl (Grape Wine Seller at Millennium Centre).

**20.7.2022 :** (a) MPYCC leaders held a meeting on 20.7.2022 @ 12:30 p.m. at Congress Bhavan. The meeting was chaired by Pu Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President and 33 (thirty three) members were present. The meeting reportedly discussed about follow up action to be taken on their 5-point demands presented to the Chief Minister on 20.6.2022 concerning Mizoram health care bills as today is the deadline set for fulfilment of their demands by the government, viz., release of all pending health care bills, declaration of entire funds available under MSHCS, etc. As per input, MPYCC is planning to organize protest/agitation programme in front of Vanapa Hall, Aizawl on 22.7.2022.

(b) MPCC held its Executive Committee Meeting on 20.7.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Lal Thanhawla Auditorium, Aizawl and around 110 (one hundred ten) members were present. Chaired by Pu Lalsawta, President, the meeting decided to extend the ongoing term of MPCC leaders (which will come to an end on 24.7.2022) till the 2023 General Election. The meeting also made a 'Resolution' wherein it took serious view on the Finance Commissioner's statement about the impending financial difficulties of the State. It holds Pu Zoramthanga's led MNF government responsible for the financial difficulties of the State and expressed regret that the financial position consolidated by the previous Congress government through austerity measures got plunged into such situation in less than 4 years of MNF rule. It further stated that the State's debt has greatly increased due to uneconomical spending by the MNF government and if not immediately rectified; the state will enter into 'Debt Trap' resulting in massive sufferings of the people. It also demanded the government to immediately release "White Paper" on State's finance so that the people may come to know the real financial condition of the State. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.

**21.7.2022 :** MPYCC is set to organize 'Mipui Thlavang Hauhna Inkhawm' (programme to support and defend the people) on 22.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. near Aizawl Tennis Court, Tuikual South, Aizawl. The programme will be led by Pu Laltawnliana, Vice President, MPYCC and speeches will be delivered by Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, President, MPYCC; Pu Rosiamngheta, AMC Councillor &amp; Secy., MPCC; Pu John Siamkunga, Gen. Secy., MPCC and Pu Zodintluanga, MLA &amp; Treasurer, MPCC. A Resolution will be passed which will be declared by Pu Zohmingthanga Tlau, Gen. Secy., MPYCC.

 The programme was earlier intended to be held at Vanapa Hall, Aizawl, but it has been decided to be held at the above location due to engagement of Vanapa Hall area by AMC programme.

**22.7.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) Headquarters held 'Mipui Thlavang Hauhna Inkhawm (Meeting to express support to the public's plight)' on 22.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. in front of Aizawl Tennis Court. Pu Laltawnliana, Vice President MPYCC chaired the meeting and around 130 (one hundred thirty) members attended. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka President MPYCC delivered a welcome speech and Pu Rosiamngheta, AMC Councillor &amp; Secretary MPCC; Pu Vanlalzuiliana, President, Aizawl District Congress Committee; Pu John Siamkunga, General Secretary MPCC and Pu Zodintluanga MLA, &amp; Treasurer, MPCC delivered speeches. The meeting also passed the following resolutions:

 (i) The state government should immediately clear Healthcare pending bills  amounting to more than Rs.67 cores. It also urged to announce the 5   (five) points, which were highlighted in the letter submitted to the Chief  Minister on 20.6.2022 before the public.
 (ii) They will continue to take necessary action in connection with their   standing demand for payment of compensation to the relatives of Pi   Lalhriatpuii (L), who was allegedly died due to seizure of huge numbers  of her grape wines. It also urged the state government to clarify its stand  on MLP Act and MLP Rules, and take immediate necessary action so as  to remove the difficulties being faced by grape growers in Champhai  and its surrounding areas.

 (iii) The state government should immediately take necessary action on its  promises to fulfil the demand of employees under National Health  Mission.

 (iv) Expressed regret over huge pending liabilities due to financial   mismanagement and opined that Pu Lalsawta is needed by residents of  Mizoram so as to bail out the state from its present financial crisis  situation.

  A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****27.7.2022 :** MPCC in its Press Release issued on 27.7.2022 highlighted the need to have a leader who knows how to look after the State's finance. It stated that the State was in a financially sound position during the previous Congress government and it gets deteriorated after the MNF comes to power in 2018 due to indulgence in uneconomical spending. It stated that no bill has been passed in the Treasury after CSS Funds were recently released and in spite of the financial crisis face by the State, the Finance Minister takes no remedial step and has not even announced the real financial condition of the State. It also highlighted the various financial problems of the State, such as pending bills of Health Care and Contractors. It further stated that the State has now entered into 'debt trap' and fiscal consolidation of the State is the foremost need of the hour.**

****29.7.2022 :** MPCC held its Friday Political Session on 29.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 70 (seventy) members were present. The session was led by Pu C. Lalhlimpuia, Secretary, MPCC and Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, delivered a speech about the present financial crisis of the State. Pu Lal Thanzara stated that the present financial difficulty of the State is due to the negligence of leaders and a State cannot progress under the leadership of leaders who failed in financial management. He also said that PMGSY fund of Rs.70 crores is lying pending at the Treasury and he urged the government to release bills to the Contractors without diverting the fund. He also said that the previous Congress government used to announce the real financial position of the State instead of trying to hide the financial crisis. He further said that efforts made by the Congress government towards financial consolidation during its 10 (ten) years rule was destroyed by the MNF government within 3 (three) years. He also said that experts in financial management are regarded highly all over the world and Congress is having one such person, i.e., Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President. A press release in this regard was issued by the party.**

****01.8.2022 :** (a) MPCC called a Press Conference on 30.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman Media Cell. A Press Statement was issued which highlighted that the State's finance is not safe at the hands of Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister and the State is in need of leader capable to look after the finance. It stated that the State is in a financial crisis due to wasteful expenditures incurred by the MNF government. It also highlighted the steps taken by the previous Congress government to consolidate the State's financial position. It further highlighted how road constructions under PMGSY got hampered by the present financial crunch of the government. It also alleged that the MNF leaders are trying to hide the financial crisis of the State. It further demanded the Finance Minister to release a 'White Paper' on the real financial position of the State.**

(b) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 1.8.2022 praised Jeremy Lalrinnunga, who bagged the Gold Medal in Weight Lifting at the Commonwealth Games 2022. It stated that Pu Zodintluanga, the then Sports Minister and authorities of Sports Council deserved praise for having paved the way for his success through the 'Catch Them Young Policy'. It stated that Jeremy was sent to Army Sports Institute in 2011 under the said Policy and if Congress comes to power again, it will implement the Policy in a more meaningful and comprehensive manner.

**02.8.2022 :** MPCC called a Press Conference on 2.8.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Pu C. Lalhriatpuia, Secretary MPCC Media Department, and 15 (fifteen) persons including 10 (ten) media persons were present. A Press Statement was issued wherein it demanded Pu Tawnluia, Deputy Chief Minister, to apologize to the people for having announced that SEDP will be distributed within the month of July, 2022. It stated that the statement made by the Dy. CM on 28.6.2022 at Tuichang South Block MNF Conference wherein he has expressed his confidence that all the DCs will distribute SEDP during July, 2022, has brought false hope to poor farmers in villages as the same has not been distributed till date. It highlighted that altogether Rs.1913 crores have been allocated under SEDP during the last 4 years and Congress Party opined that the allocated fund under SEDP is adequate and the same could easily be distributed if the government wants to do so. It further demanded for distribution of Rs.3 lakhs to each household as promised by Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister.

**3.8.2022:** MPYCC is planning to put up posters on preservation of Tlawng river at Tlawng Lui Kai, Aizawl-Reiek road, and its surrounding area on 4.8.2022.

****4.8.2022 :** (a) Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA called a press conference on 4.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and he was assisted by Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Cell Chairman and Pu C. Lalhriatpuia, Media Secretary, and 10 (ten) media persons were present. Pu Lalrindika Ralte highlighted how the Supply Department of the government procures rice from the open market through ZIDCO. It stated that 1 (one) quintal of rice was purchased for Rs.2750/- and sold at the rate of Rs.1500/-, leading to loss of Rs.1250/- per quintal of rice. It further stated that the government incurred a loss of Rs.36,87,50,000/- for purchase of 2,95,000 quintals of rice during the last 6 (six) months. Pu Lalrindika expressed confidence that rice can be procured at a lower rates and he appealed the government to buy rice at lower rates so as to prevent wastage of government money and for improving the financial health of the State.**

(b) Dt. 3.8.2022, around 40 members of MPYCC organized Save Tlawng Awareness programme and conducted cleanliness drive in between Aizawl water supply source at Tlawng river and Vaipuanpho, Aizawl-Reiek Road, and also displayed posters on preservation of Tlawng river and its tributaries at 4 (four) places. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President, stated that while they welcome developmental works, it should not be at the cost of wanton destruction of environment.

****5.8.2022 :** MPCC held its Friday Political Session on 5.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl and around 70 (seventy) members were present. The session was led by Pu R. Vanlalvena, Ex-MLA &amp; General Secretary MPCC and Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President inducted 2 (two) new members. Delivering a speech, the MPCC President, praised Pu Lal Thanhawla, Ex-MPCC President, who was a member of the 9th finance Commission, for his sound knowledge about the Finance. He also spoke about how the State's Finance was improved by the Congress government by declaring the Year of Consolidation for 2 (two) years. He also highlighted the need to spend money wisely and on right purposes and the saying that substantial amount of money was left to the present MNF government by the Congress government due to the stinginess of the then Finance Minister and MNF indulged in free-spending was not entirely correct. He explained that money can be spent only after observing all formalities, such as preparation of DPR, Administrative Approval, etc. and all these added by subsequent funds received from the Finance Commission after the announcement of election led to accumulation of huge amount of unspent money at the end of the Congress Ministry. He further said that Congress party can never part with the poor people and it should rather remain at their reach. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

**8.8.2022 :** MPCC held its Monday Devotion under the guidance of Pi Lalthazuali, General Secretary, MPCC at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl on 8.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and around 50 (fifty) members were present.

****10.8.2022 :** MPYCC held a revival programme for its members under the guidance of Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, MPYCC President, on 10.8.2022 @ 1:30 p.m. at Hyve Aizawl City Hall and Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President and Rev. Lalzuithanga, Ex-Moderator, Synod, delivered speeches. Pu Lalsawta stated that it is a challenge for them to see that people without any party affiliations are having more concern about the deteriorating condition of the State and the MPYCC members must work hard to rebuild the State. Rev. Lalzuithanga also expressed deep concern about the rapid death rate of males in Mizoram as compared with the females.**
****12.8.2022 :** MPCC General Headquarters held its Friday Political Session at the Golden Hall of Congress Bhawan, Aizawl on 12.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and around 80 (eighty) members were present. The session was held as a mark of the 75th Anniversary of India's Independence and it was led by Lt. Col. ZS Zuala, Ex-MLA and Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President and Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Spokesperson delivered speeches. Pu Lalsawta earnestly appealed all those who have left Congress party for whatever reason to return back to the party as the State would plunge into a very bad situation if Congress fails to win the next 2023 General Election. Dr. Lallianchhunga also stated that Congress is the party that uphold religious freedom and personal liberty and Christians face problems whenever BJP is in power at the Centre. He also said that the strength of the Congress party in Mizoram is not determined by the party's position in Delhi. He further said that there can be no 2 (two) major regional political parties in Mizoram as long as Congress party exists, and they will choke each other out very soon. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

****16.8.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 13.8.2022 alleged that the present deteriorated road condition of the State is due to the negligence of the MNF government. It stated that the previous congress government could not undertake road repairing works properly due to excessive rainfall towards the end of the ministry. It stated that the present MNF government is in a fortunate position to undertake road construction/repairing works due to favourable rainfall and substantial funds left behind by the previous Congress government. It alleged that the present dilapidated road condition of the State is solely due to the negligence of the government.**

(b) Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, unfurled the national flag to celebrate the 75th Anniversary of India's Independence i.e., 15.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. in a function held at Congress Bhavan, Aizawl. The function was led by Pu RL. Vala, General Secretary, MPCC and Pu Lalsawta delivered a speech wherein he has highlighted the significance of India's Independence and the important role played by the leaders for the development of the country/states. He also said that MNF government is ruining the State and he appealed the people to support Congress in the coming 2023 General Election.

**18.8.2022:** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 18.8.2022 expressed regret over incidence of rising crimes and widespread prevalence of contraband items under the present MNF government. It alleged that the government has failed to maintain law and order and the Home Minister remain largely hidden and has no concern for the safety of the people and it urged him to be more proactive. It also alleged that the ruling MNF party leaders of Blocks and Units behaved arrogantly against government officials and often threatens them with transfer. It felt that the act of someone said to be the Chief Minister's daughter against a doctor shows that the people have no freedom under the present government. It also highlighted the increasing crime rate of Aizawl district and stated that out of the 1294 cases registered during January - July, 2022, 919 (71.09%) are of theft cases and this shows that crime is on the rise.

****19.8.2022 :** MPCC General Headquarters held its Friday Political Session on 19.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and around 60 (sixty) members were present. Pu Vanlalruata Khawlhring, MPCC Secretary led the session and Pu Lalhruaitluanga Kawlni, Secretary MPCC Boundary Committee; Tv. C. Lalrochhara, Media Department &amp; Pu J. Lalliankima, Secretary MPCC gave report concerning their portfolios. Pu TT Zothansanga, Ex-MLA &amp; General Secretary MPCC delivered a speech wherein he has stated that God wants the Congress party as an instrument to rebuild the State. He also said that MNF and ZPM are hollow inside and not worthy of support by neutral voters and the latter is declining due to internal bickering.**

****22.8.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Youths Congress Committee (MPYCC) in its Press Release issued on 22.8.2022 congratulated all probable beneficiaries of SEDP in connection with the state government intention to distribute the same. It considered the state government intention to distribute Rs.50,000/- and Rs.25,000/- as first instalment against their promise to distribute Rs.3 lakhs as disrespect and disregard of the people of Mizoram. It further expressed their disappointment over the state government intention to distribute a meagre amount of money, which is insufficient for setting up of sustainable livelihood activities like MIP project where they distributed Rs.7,000/- instead of the promised Rs.30,000/-. It appealed individual, government servants, members of various parties, NGOs to offer advice and suggestion to them for setting of good governance.**

****23.8.2022 :** (a) MPCC in its Press Release issued on 23.8.2022 stated that Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President and his team visited various villages under East Tuipui North Block and held interactions with village leaders and the people. The campaign is being undertaken at the initiative of the MPCC Campaign Committee. Pu Lal Thanzara alleged that the State is entering into debt trap due to financial mismanagement of the MNF government. He also pointed out that the Party is having high confidence in the coming General Election under the leadership of Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President and he invited all the people to join the ongoing mass homecoming of people into Congress Party.**

(b) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 23.8.2022 stated that Pu KS Thanga, Ex-Minister &amp; PAC Member, MPCC attended Champhai South Block Congress Committee Extended Meeting held today as per the arrangement made by MPCC Campaign Committee. Delivering a speech at the meeting, Pu KS Thanga stated that if MPCC wins the next election, they will not allow selling of liquor within the State again. He also stated that during the previous Congress government, employees of the state government received their salary on time and around Rs. 500 - 600 crores GP Fund were disbursed every year. He further stated that government employees are unable to receive their salary on time under the present MNF government and did not even dare to expect withdrawal of their GP Fund due to mismanagement of the State's finance.

****24.8.2022 :** MPCC Media Cell in its Press Release issued on 24.8.2022 stated as per the programme chalked out by MPCC Campaign Committee, Pu KS Thanga, Ex-Minister &amp; PAC Member, attended Tuichang North Block Congress Committee Extended Meeting held today at Khawzawl. Delivering a speech, Pu KS Thanga stated that the State's finance ought to be looked after with due care while following austerity measures and the people are longing for Congress party for its skill in looking after the finance. He also highlighted the various financial difficulties face by the people under the MNF government.**

****25.8.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 25.8.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC, attended Aizawl West-II Congress Special Block Conference held today. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalsawta stated that it is the responsibility of the politicians to bring in good governance and Mizoram can be transformed into a State where the hardworking and the honest people flourish. He also said that the real need of Mizoram is a 'good system'. The PR further stated that Aizawl South-I Congress Special Block Conference was also held today at Godfrey Tower, College Veng, Aizawl, and Pu John Siamkunga, MPCC General Secretary and leaders of Aizawl District Congress Committee attended the conference.**

(b) MPCC Media Department in another Press Release issued on 25.8.2022 stated that Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC Vice President, visited various villages under East Tuipui Constituency and held interactions with the public in such villages. It stated that Congress Party members found renewed enthusiasm in all the villages. It also stated that he inducted 10 (ten) new voters at Sesih village (6 from MNF and 4 neutral voters) and delivering a speech at the induction programme, Pu Lal Thanzara stated that there are many good government employees who are against corruption and these people have lost hope at present and are longing to have a Chief Minister who is free from corruption.

****26.8.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 26.8.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, attended Aizawl South-II Special Block Conference held today at Zawlbuk, Thakthing Veng, Aizawl. Delivering a speech, the MPCC President stated that Congress Party desire to have a good government which is in line with the wishes of the people and the Church and they are mentally prepared for it. Speaking about the existing shortages of government employees, he said that even developed countries faces similar problem and top priority will be given to provide gainful and permanent means of livelihood to farmers, manual labourers and the youths. He also said that the government's debt has to be eventually repaid with public contributions and hence, those responsible to look after the State's finance should respect that and should do so carefully. He further pointed out that the State is in dire need of decentralization of power.**

****29.8.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 27.8.2022 stated that Aizawl West-III Congress Special Block Conference was held the same day at MPSOA Conference Hall, CID Complex, Bungkawn, Aizawl. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President, stated that the government should create common assets of the people, such as water and power supply, cold storage, processing unit, market, etc. and should act as 'Facilitators' even at the Central Ministry level and should give assistance to the people as per their actual need for their eventual self-independence. He also pointed out the importance of rule of law and decentralization of power. The conference passed three resolutions, viz.,**

  i) It lauded the contribution of Dr. Lal Thanhawla for the State.

  ii) The people of Mizoram are fed up of the present MNF government.

  iii) It expressed confidence in Pu Lalsawta, the new Congress Party  President.

**30.8.2022 :** MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 30.8.2022 alleged that the MNF government has failed in SEDP and the statement of Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister, confirms that Rs.3 lakhs will not be distributed. It stated that the Minister said at Mizo Hnam Run yesterday that those who will be receiving Rs.25000 will receive not less than Rs.3 lakhs if MNF continues to be in power and this clearly shows that Rs.3 lakhs will not be distributed to each household under SEDP. It alleged that MNF not only deceived the people, but also uttered blatant lie to the public and should pray for their forgiveness.

****31.8.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 31.8.2022 stated that MZP Headquarters, Zawlnuam organized felicitation programme for successful students at Multipurpose Hall, Zawlnuam College and Pu Lalrindika Ralte, Hachhek Constituency MLA, graced the occasion as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech, the Chief Guest encouraged the students present to gain true wisdom from their studies so as to become a blessing for other fellow beings. He also highlighted the need to conduct job recruitment in a fair manner so that knowledge/wisdom can become useful in reality.**

****2.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.9.2022 stated that Pu PC Lalthanliana, Ex-Minister &amp; PAC Member and his team visited various villages under Tuichang constituency as per the programme chalk out by MPCC Campaign Committee. It also stated that a public function was held today at Zuchhip Hall, Khawzawl and delivering a speech at the function, Pu PC Lalthanliana stated that the general public considered the present MNF government as unfit to rule the state in the next term as they dragged the state into poverty and not stand firm on their election promises. He also alleged ZPM as undertaking 'Trial Policy' and presence of leadership crisis among ZPM leaders. He further stated that majority of the public put faith in Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC to bail out the state from the present financial crisis. It also stated that he was accompanied by Pu James Thanghmingmawia, Secretary MPCC; Pu Lalropuia, General Secretary, ADCC and Pu C. Lalrosanga, General Secretary, MPYCC.**

(b) MPCC General Headquarters held Friday Political Session on 2.9.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Golden Hall, Congress Bhavan. Pu Tamlal Lohar, Secretary MPCC presided the function and 60 (sixty) members attended. Pu PC. Laltlansanga, General Secretary MPCC delivered a speech on a theme 'Congress will form government with the help and support of God and the general public' and he highlighted the various shortcomings and achievements of the previous congress government.

****5.9.2022 :** (a) MPYCC Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.9.2022 stated that leaders of MPYCC led by Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka visited vendors, who are facing difficulties due to delay in construction of New Market Building by MNF government and they handed over a good number of silpaulines. It also stated that Chawhmeh Zuar Joint Association, New Market received leaders of MPYCC and delivering a speech, Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka stated that the previous Congress government allocated the fund required for construction of New Marker Building and questioned whether the fund allocated for the said purpose amounting to Rs.3641.59 lakhs had been diverted to other purpose. In this regard, he urged the state government to take immediate necessary action. It also stated that the New Market Main Building also called as Aizawl City Centre Annexe construction is undergoing and Lushai Engineers executed the construction. The construction work was commenced on 4.10.2018 and the work is supposed to be completed within 36 (thirty six) months. However, only 35% of the total work was completed within this period.**

(b) MPCC General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.9.2022 congratulated Pu Lalnghinglova Hmar, who was newly elected as AIFF Executive Member in the election of All India Football Federation (AIFF) held on 27.8.2022.

****7.9.2022 :** MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 7.9.2022 stated that it considered winning 16 (sixteen) seats out of contested 50 (fifty) seats in the recently concluded LC/VC By-election across the state as an indication of great progress of the Congress Party. It also stated that in the said election, BJP won 5 (five) seats, Congress -16 (sixteen) seats, MNF - 23 (twenty three) seats and ZPM - 5 (five) seats and congratulated all the winning candidates.**

**8.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department in its Press Release issued on 8.9.2022 stated that Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, Congress Legislature Party asked Pu Lalruatkima, Minister, Rural Development to clarify the allegation regarding demand to submit 25 percent out of the total estimate of work under Border Area Development Programme (BADP) to the concerned Minister during the ongoing Mizoram Legislative Assembly, and in this connection, they urged immediate clarification. It also stated that RD Minister could not provide clear answer to the stated question, which was asked by CLP Leader. It further urged RD Minister to clarify supplementary questions regarding which account is used for depositing the profit earned under BADP as most of works were executed by BDO and EE, Rural Development Department, and stated that Rs.8077.55 lakhs had been received for BADP since 2019.

(b) MPCC Media Department in another Press Release issued on 8.9.2022 stated that Aizawl District Congress Committee (ADCC) organized Aizawl City Block Joint Conference today at Lal Thanhawla Auditorium. Pu PC Lalhuapzauva, Vice President, ADCC presided the function and delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC expressed gratitude over the performance of Congress in the recently concluded VC/LC By-election. He also urged all persons present to refrain from vote buyers in view of the coming General Election. Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President MPCC and Pu Zodintluanga, MLA &amp; Treasurer MPCC also delivered speeches. It further stated that the following resolutions were passed during the function:

 (i) They strongly condemned delay in payment of salary to government   employees due to financial mismanagement of the state government.

 (ii) Expressed regret over the difficulties being faced by farmers of Hachhek  Constituency due to improper governance and urged the state   government to take immediate necessary action.
 (iii) Expressed regret for frequent occurrence of crime and negligence of   rules &amp; regulations.

 (iv) Necessary support should be extended to Pu Lalsawta, MPCC President  so as to set up good governance and better financial management in the  state.

 (v) Appealed all ex-congress members to re-join Congress Party so as to  form new and better government under Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC.

****9.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC General Headquarters held devotion on 9.9.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhavan. Pu Lalhmachhuana, Secretary MPCC presided the function and around 60 (sixty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC stated that the general public should be more concerned about how the state government expended the tax payers' money. Thereafter, Pu Lalhriatrenga Chhangte, Mining Engineer gave a lecture on 'Extensive Analysis of Development of Mizoram through land resources'.**

(b) MPCC General Headquarters in its 'Press Communique' issued on 9.9.2022 stated that Congress Party submitted a written letter to Member Secretary, Boundary Committee &amp; Commissioner &amp; Secretary, Home Department yesterday i.e., 8.9.2022, wherein they informed withdrawal of Congress Party from 'Boundary Committee' as it considered not appropriate to continue to be a member in the said Committee taking into account how the state government led the said Committee and alleged negligence of the said Committee by the state government concerning a meeting held with Assam government. It further stated that such being the case, it did not send representative in the Boundary Committee which was held today.

**12.9.2022 :** (a)  MPCC Media Cell convened a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 10.9.2022 @1:00 pm. Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman, MPCC Media Cell presided over the Press Conference and as many as 21 (twenty one) journalists were present. In the Press Statement issued by MPCC Media Cell, it was alleged that the financial crisis being faced by Mizoram is beyond repair. They also alleged that while the Government is unable to pay salaries to its employees on time, bills amounting to crores of rupees of the contractors preferred by MNF Ministry namely, Kamlova Chhangte, Zoramchhana, NECS Company, F. Lalliansanga, MLN Projects, Tantia Construction Ltd, etc. had been released by the Government through various District Treasuries. In the press statement details of the bills passed by Saiha Treasury, Kolasib Treasury, Sechhip Treasury, Aizawl South Treasury, Mamit Treasury Lunglei Treasury, Champhai Treasury, Lawngtlai Treasury for the above contractors which was allegedly obtained through RTI were shown. MPCC Media Cell also alleged that despite the pending bill under Health Care scheme have crossed Rs.77,97,69,971/-, contractors under Health department namely Brilliant Consultancy and Jedidia Enterprise have no issue in getting their bill passed by the Government.

(b)  On 12.9.2022 @11:00 am, MPCC conducted a programme "Siamthar lehna crusade" (Revival crusade) at Golden Hall, Congress Bhavan. Rev. Vanlalzuata was the speaker of the crusade and he emphasised upon honesty and integrity and he stated that dishonesty had penetrated into Mizo society since 1946 when Mizo people starts involving in politics. Pu TT Zothansanga, Ex-MLA and Gen. Secretary, MPCC presided over the programme and about 60 (sixty) members were present.

**14.9.2022 :** MPCC issued a Press Release on 14.9.2022 about the visits of Darlawn area by MPCC President Pu Lalsawta today. During the visit, Pu Lalsawta addressed public meeting at Sakawrdai Community Hall in which he stated that Congress is advocating sustainable development and it give priority to environment and social reforms.

****15.9.2022 :** Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC, who was on tour to Darlawn area attended Congress Party Workers' Meet on 15.9.2022 at BRC Hall, Darlawn. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalsawta stated that if they are in power, necessary assistance will be extended to the needy youths, farmers &amp; workers, and they will make the state as a place of success for those who are hard working. He also stated that farmers are facing difficulties in disposal of their harvested farm products as the harvested goods are not sufficient enough for bulk disposal. In this regard, Special Economic Zone or Cluster Farming system will be adopted so as to make farming profitable. He further appealed all persons present to deny any attempt to buy their votes, and not to cause heavy burden to MLA candidates. Pu Zodingliana Zote, Vice President, Tuivawl South Block Congress Committee presided the function and Pu Lalremruata President, Tuivawl South Block Congress Committee proposed a vote of thanks. In this regard, MPCC Media Department issued a Press Release on 15.9.2022.**

**16.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC held its Friday Political Session on 16.9.2022 @11:00 am at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lalawmpuia, Secretary, MPCC presided over the meeting and as many as 70 (seventy) members attended. During the meeting, Pu Zothangliana, Gen. Secretary, MPCC addressed the gathering party members. In his speech Pu Zothangliana slammed MNF Ministry and alleged that some members of MNF party will leave their party after allocation of SEDP.

(b) MPCC in its press release issued on 16.9.2022 highlighted about the political talk organized by Department of Political Science, MZU at Dean's Multipurpose Hall, MZU today. In this Political Talk, Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC was the speaker and he interacted with the students and stressed upon good governance, sustainable development, moral reform, rule of law, management, etc. He also invited the students to play a role for the creation of good government in Mizoram. The Political Talk was presided over by Dr. Lallianchhunga, HoD, Dept. of Political Science, MZU and Chairman, MPCC Media Cell. Faculty of MZU, Prof. Jangkhongam Doungel and Dr. JC Zomuanthanga also delivered speeches.
**19.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department led by its chairman Dr. Lallianchhunga convened a press conference on 17.9.2022 @1:00 pm at Aizawl Press Club and 15 (fifteen) media persons attended. In the press statement, MPCC Media Department reacted to the press statement of Pu L. Thangmawia, MLA and Secretary, MNF Legislature Party issued on 14.9.2022. MPCC claimed that Pu L. Thangmawia's press statement had specifies that MNF Ministry have no problem in passing bills of its favored contractors. They also alleged that most of the bills of SLT Infracon Pvt. Ltd, Silchar, Ratna Infra., Hyderabad, M/S Bhavya Construction, Silchar and Kamrula have been passed instantly in a day by the Treasury, while many pension bills and health care bills are kept pending.

(b) On 19.9.2022 @11:00 am, MPCC conducted Revival Crusade at Golden Hall, Congress Bhavan and Rev. Vanlalzuata was the speaker. Rev. Vanlalzuata spoke on a topic "Be a blessing to other" and the crusade was chaired by Pu Ronald Sapa Tlau and about 50 (fifty) members attended. The crusade will be resume on 26.9.2022.

**23.9.2022 :** (a) MPCC Media Department issued a Press release on 23.9.2022 in which they claimed that there has been irregularity in the supply of utensils under Mid-day Meal scheme and urged the Government to look into it. They alleged that utensils like plates, spoons, vessels (dekchi) etc. are supplied recently and they are smaller in size and poor quality and due to this, offices of District Project Coordinator are hesitant to distribute them to schools. They alleged that these utensils are supplied by Allied Concern.

(b) MPCC held Political Session on 23.9.2022 @11:00 am at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lalhruaitluanga Kawlni, Secretary, MPCC chaired the session and as many as 70 (seventy) members were present. Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC and Pu K. Lalnunmawia, Gen. Secretary MPCC delivered speeches. Pu Lalsawta urged party members to strive hard for the upcoming 2023 Election and maintained that tendering (looking after) of constituencies by some probable candidates will not be permitted and request party members to accept candidates approved by the nomination committee.
**26.9.2022 :** (a) Lunglei District Congress Committee (LDCC) held Political; Session at LDCC Bhawan, Lunglei on 26.9.2022 @11:00 am. Pu C. Lalsanga, President, Farm Veng Congress Unit chaired the session and Pu Joseph Lalhimpuia, Ex-MLA &amp; Gen. Secretary, MPCC delivered a speech. In his speech, Pu Joseph Lalhimpuia strongly criticized MNF Government over its alleged reluctance to receive RT-PCR machine donated by Pu Zodintluanga MLA and the dilapidated road condition in Lunglei. He accused MNF Ministry of showing contempt towards Lunglei town and further alleged that MZU Southern Campus is bound to fail under MNF. As many as 50 members attended today's political session.

(b) On 26.9.2022 @11:00 am, MPCC continued its Revival Crusade (Siamthar lehna crusade) at Golden Hall, Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalzuata was the speaker at today's crusade and he emphasized upon putting God's first in politics. Pu PB Lalsawmliana, PAC member presided over the crusade function and renowned singers Sawmtea Chhangte, Zorema Ralte and Sangkimi Khiangte presented special numbers and about 60 members attended.
**27.9.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee (MPMCC) is scheduled to conduct Aizawl City Block Mahila Conference cum Political Training Programme on 28.9.2022 @11:00 am at Lal Thanhawla Auditorium, Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalawmpuii Chawngthu, President MPMCC will preside over the programme and leaders of MPCC, Pu Lalsawta, President; Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President and Pu Zodintluanga, Treasurer are expected to attend and deliver speeches.
**28.9.2022 :** On 28.9.2022 @11:00 am Aizawl City Block Mahila Conference cum Political Training Programme was conducted at Lal Thanhawla Auditorium, Congress Bhawan, Aizawl by Mizoram Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee (MPMCC). Pi Vanlalawmpuii Chawngthu, President MPMCC presided over the function and as many as 500 (five hundred) Mahila members attended. Leaders of MPCC, Pu Lalsawta, President and Pu Zodintluanga, Treasurer attended the function and delivered speeches. In his speech Pu Lalsawta alleged that some party will rely and depend on vote buying but appealed party members to decline such offer. He also requested party members not to rely on candidates and party leaders during election but to be self-support on election expenditure. Pu Zodintluanga also claimed that most of the infrastructural development and establishment happened during congress ministry. The following resolutions were passed during the Conference cum Political Training:

 (i) It was Congress Ministry who introduced reservation of seats for women  in Village Council, Local Council and Aizawl Municipal Corporation.

 (ii) It was Congress Ministry who work for the development of women in  Mizoram and who enacted The Mizoram Marriage, Divorce and  Inheritance of Property Act, 2014 and MPMCC will continue to strive  for Congress party.

 (iii) Many developments took place during Congress regime and   Government employees also received their pays, GP fund, pension  benefits, etc. on time.

 (iv) Alleged financial mismanagement and increasing of liabilities under   MNF Ministry and asserted that they will work for the formation of Pu  Lalsawta led Congress Ministry in next election.

**29.9.2022 :** (a) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee submitted a written petition to Deputy Chief Minister on the afternoon of 29.9.2022 @4:00 pm wherein they stated that MPYCC had raised the issues of scarcity of water supply within Aizawl City on many occasions and in this connection, they had visited Tlawng river, the source of water supply for Aizawl City and held a meeting with Engineer-in-Chief, PHED. It also stated that at present, residents of Aizawl City are facing scarcity of water supply and in this regard, they urged Deputy Chief Minister to take necessary action. It further stated that various excuses such as irregular power supply, low rainfall etc. were made for scarcity of water supply in Aizawl City in earlier occasion, and they urged the Deputy Chief Minister not to make excuses and instead to take immediate necessary action for regular supply of water in Aizawl City. It also stated concern over delay in commencement of construction work of Aizawl New Market Building and expressed their intention to take follow up action in this regard.

(b) MPCC General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.9.2022 stated that Congress Party urged Pu Zoramthanga, MNF President &amp; Chief Minister of Mizoram to clarify whether he is meant for himself or to cover up his utter lies in connection with his speech, which was delivered on 26.9.2022 at Mizo Hnam Run, wherein he was allegedly stated that there are some persons who delivered incomplete sentences with an attempt to deceive the general public. It also stated that the various statements made by Pu Zoramthanga such as 'we will make Aizawl as the only city without Traffic Jam', 'we will make Mizoram as Switzerland of the East', 'we will allocate Rs.2 lakhs per patient under SEDP' etc. as a complete sentence to deceive the general public. It further highlighted the various speeches of the Chief Minister which they considered as an attempt to deceive the general public. It expressed their disappointment over accusing other as telling incomplete sentences with an attempt to deceive the general public by Pu Zoramthanga.

****30.9.2022 :** On 30.9.2022 @11:30 am MPCC organised launching function of their Election Manifesto No.1 for 2023 MLA General Election "Tang Puihna" [Mizoram Economic Development Initiative (MEDI)]. Pu Ronald Sapa Tlau, Vice Chairman, MPCC Manifesto Drafting Committee presided over the function and Pu R. Romawia, Ex-Minister gave devotional talk and as many as 120 (one hundred twenty) members attended. Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC released their Manifesto and stated that all their manifestos could be implemented and if they are in power, they intend to make Mizoram a peaceful, developed state through the said Manifesto. He also stated that they intend to extend necessary assistance to the youths and farmers so as to have a sustainable livelihood. The main features of "Tang Puihna" [Mizoram Economic Development Initiative (MEDI)] are as under:**
 i) Construction of all-weather road and irrigation.

 ii) Specialised Cropping Zone.

 iii) Implement Agriculture marketing through physical infrastructure and   institutional infrastructure, market intelligence and monitoring and  establishment of Agriculture Marketing Regulatory Board, Agriculture  Fair Price Commission and Agriculture Market Intelligence &amp;  Monitoring Unit.

 iv) Provide assistance to farmers by forming Primary Agriculture Credit  Society (PACS) and Self Help Group (SHG)

 v) Provide employment opportunity to unemployed youths through  Targetted Skill Development Scheme and Entrepreneurship  Development Programme.

 vi) Social Security scheme for destitute.

**3.10.2022 :** MPCC held Monday Devotion meeting at Congress Bhawan on 3.10.2022 @11:00 am. Pu Lalrindika Ralte, MLA presided over the meeting and Upa LH Rohmingliana, Speaker, Evangelistic Team was the resource person. Upa LH Rohmingliana appeal party members to be on God's side. As many as 70 party members attended the devotion meeting.

****4.10.2022:** MPCC is scheduled to conduct 'Khawchhak Tlangdung Fan Programme' (Political Tour of Eastern Mizoram) during 4th-6th October, 2022 at Keifang Kawn, Saitual; Zaingen Hall, Khawzawl and Bethel Community Hall, Champhai. Office Bearers of MPCC, Pu Lalsawta, President; Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President and Pu Zodintluanga Ralte are expected to participate in this programme. The scheduled programme for today at Keifang Kawn is expected to be commenced at around 4:30 pm.**

**6.10.2022 :** MPCC commenced 'Khawchhak Tlangdung Fan Programme' (Political Tour of Eastern Mizoram) on 4.10.2022 @4:30 pm at Keifang Kawn, Saitual. Pu R. Laldawngliana, Chairman, Tawi East Block Congress Committee presided over the function and about 600 party members attended. During the function, Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC reportedly inducted as many as 249 members into Congress Party. Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President MPCC and Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, Treasurer MPCC also addressed the gathering party members.
 'Khawchhak Tlangdung Fan Programme' was continued on 5.10.2022 at Zaingen Hall, Khawzawl. Office Bearers of MPCC, Pu Lalsawta, President; Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President and Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, Treasurer delivered speeches at the programme. In his speech, Pu Lalsawta appealed the people of Khawzawl to vote for Congress party to bring changes in Mizoram and he also reportedly inducted 134 members into Congress party.

 On 6.10.2022 @11:30 am, 'Khawchhak Tlangdung Fan Programme' was conducted for Champhai North Block I&amp;II and Champhai South Block Congress at Bethel Community Hall, Champhai. Pu V. Rosangzuala, President Champhai South Block presided over the programme and about 450 party members attended. During the programme Pu Lalsawta, President has reportedly inducted as many as 386 members into Congress party. At the function, Champhai North Block I&amp;II and Champhai South Block Congress passed a joint resolution expressing their confidence on the leadership of the three office bearers of MPCC to manage Congress party and to administer Mizoram.

****7.10.2022:** On 7.10.2022, MPCC issued a press release with regard to 'Khawchhak Tlangdung Fan Programme' (Political Tour of Eastern Mizoram) conducted during 4th-6th October, 2022 at the three district of Eastern Mizoram- Saitual, Khawzawl and Champhai. It stated that the programme was conducted under the aegis of the office bearers, Pu Lalsawta, President; Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President and Pu Zodintluanga Ralte, Treasurer and accompanied by about 60 leaders of Congress party. It also claimed that Pu Lalsawta had inducted 249, 134 and 386 voters, 769 in total at Saitual, Khawzawl and Champhai respectively. The press release also expressed its condolence to Pu Lalrinawma of Armed Veng, ADCC Organiser, which died at car accident during the political tour.**
****12.10.2022 :** Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, President MPYCC convened a press conference on 12.10.2022 @12:00 noon in his office chamber, Congress Bhawan, Aizawl and 17 media persons attended. In his press statement, Dr. Lalmalsawma highlighted about the action taken by Congress party against pending of Health Care Bills in Mizoram. As per the press statement, Congress has filed a legal representation to the Government and maintained that they will further file petition to High court. It also stated that as many as 28,448 Health Care bill amounting to Rs.77,97,69,891 has been pending as per RTI report.**

**14.10.2022 :** On 14.10.2022 @11:30 am, MPCC held a meeting on their Election Manifesto No.1 Mizoram Economic Development Initiative (MEDI)/Tang Puihna at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President, MPCC presided over the meeting and about 80 members attended. Pu Lalrinmawia Ralte, Secretary, MPCC Manifesto Drafting Committee gave presentation on MEDI and said that Congress had constructed about 2000 kms of agriculture roads for farmers and stated that these roads will be repaired if congress win election. He also said that Congress will give priority to irrigation for farmers and will introduce contract farming.

**17.10.2022:** Election of President of Indian National Congress was held today in between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. and 71 (seventy one) representatives of MPCC casted their votes in the said election. Counting of votes will be held on 19.10.2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued.

****21.10.2022 :** (a) On 21.10.2022 @11:00 am, MPCC convened Friday political session at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu H. Vanlalruata, Secretary, MPCC chaired the meeting and about 50 (fifty) members attended. During the session, Pi Ruth Lalawmpuii, Former State Manager, Mizoram State Rural Livelihood Project gave presentation on Problems and prospects of Rural area development.**

(b) Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC appointed the following as Office Bearer of Aizawl District Congress Committee by issuing an appointment order on 20.10.2022 :

 President  : Pu VL Robiaka, Dinthar.

 Vice President  : Pu Lalhmingthanga Pachuau, Chanmari.

 Treasurer  : Pu Vanlalhruaia, Khatla South.

****26.10.2022 :** Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.10.2022 stated that Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram during his visit to Champhai Grape Winery stated that necessary action will be taken by formulating proper project and they expressed regret over the said statement. It also alleged the MNF government of not having proper plan of action for grape growers till date despite starting the initiative since 2007 using MIP fund, and considered the same as disregard of the farmers. It also stated that as per the instruction of Excise Minister, Excise &amp; Narcotics Department seized a good amount of grape wines made from Champhai Winery from the store of Pi Lalhriatpuii (L) at Millennium Centre and it urged the state government to clarify its stand on grape wine. It again requested the state government to return all the grape wines sized from Pi Lalhriatpuii (L) to the rightful owner and to award suitable compensation.**
**28.10.2022:** MPCC convened Friday Political Session at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl on 28.10.2022 @11:00 am. During the Political session, Pu C. Chawngkunga, Gen. Secretary, MPCC addressed the gathering party members. In his speech, Pu C. Chawngkunga expressed his admiration of their President Pu Lalsawta over his alleged free from corruption and integrity. Pu C. Vanlalkiana, Secretary MPCC presided over the political session and about 60 (sixty) members attended.

****2.11.2022 :**  MPCC issued a Press Release on 2.11.2022 in which they slammed MNF Ministry and held responsible for the problems being faced by areca nuts growers in Hachhek Assembly Constituency and the alleged resultant conflict that arises between the people of Hachhek Assembly Constituency and vehicles owners of Champhai District. They alleged that the problem being faced by areca nuts growers was mainly due to smuggling of areca nuts. They accused the Government of failure in maintenance of law &amp; order and demanded the Government to solve the problem immediately.**

**3.11.2022 :** On 3.11.2022 @1:00 pm, MPYCC conducted Training on Social Media at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl in which they stressed upon sharing of reliable information on social media. Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka, President, MPYCC in his speech encouraged MPYCC members to be polite and use decent/ethical words in social media and said that it is the responsibility of the youth Congress to propagate the party Manifesto through social media. Pu S. Lalrinawma, Gen. Secretary, MPYCC presided over the training programme and they also felicitated party members who have good contribution for the party in social media.

**4.11.2022 :** (a) Friday Political Session of MPCC was held on 4.11.2022 @11:00 am at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Party President, Pu Lalsawta inducted Pu Zohmingliana Zote, Member, Selesih Local Council into Congress Party. In his speech, Pu Lalsawta reacted against huge expenditure in the election process and said that this leads to corruption.

(b) MPCC issued a Press Release on 4.11.2022 in which they underlined that MPCC had conducted visiting programme of all Congress units within Aizawl Municipal area during 29th October - 3rd November, 2022. Leaders of MPCC- Party MLAs, General Secretaries, Executive Members, etc. led the visiting teams and they stated that this visiting programme will bring progress in the party.

**7.11.2022 :** (a) On 5.11.2022 @1:00 p.m., Serchhip Congress Block and Thenzawl Congress Block held Joint Conference at Serchhip Bazar. Pu Lalramnghaka kawlni, President, Serchhip Congress Block presided over the Conference and about 500 (five hundred) party members attended. Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC also attended the Conference and he reportedly inducted 171 (one hundred seventy one) members, including Pu R. Vanlaltluanga @ Matluanga (Ex-Gen. Secretary, MNF) into Congress party. Leaders of MPCC Pu Lalthanzara Vice President; Pu Zodintluanga Treasurer; Pu Robiaka President ADCC; Pi Vanlalawmpuii Chawngthu President Mahila Congress, etc. also attended the Conference.

(b) Pu Lalrindika Ralte MLA sent a memorandum to the Hon'ble Prime Minister of Mizoram on 7.11.2022 in which he apprised the Hon'ble Prime Minister about the problems being faced by Areca Nuts Growers in the State of Mizoram due to the illegal smuggling of areca nuts from Mynamar. In the letter, Pu Lalrindika stated that "While the Union Home Minister has intervened and directed the State Government of Mizoram and Manipur to curb the illegal trading of areca nuts into India, the way the State Government of Mizoram has been reacting to this unhealthy situation has been very pathetic and short of expectation from a State Government." He requested the Hon'ble Prime Ministers intervention to stop the illegal smuggling of areca nuts from Myanmar and to clear marketing channel for areca nuts produced by poor farmers of Mizoram.

****9.11.2022 :** (a) MPCC issued a Press Release on 9.11.2022 wherein they expressed their disapproval against the alleged undue delay in conduct of Lunglei Municipal Council's election by the Government due to the pressure from MNF Sub-Headquarters, Lunglei. They alleged that the Hon'ble Dy. Chief Minister had announced on 12th May, 2022 that election of Lunglei Municipal Council will be conducted within 2022. They further alleged that Chief Executive Officer and Secretary of LMC were appointed on 2nd August, 2022; fund for conduct of election was handed over by Govt. of Mizoram to State Election Commission on 13th September, 2022 and Final Electoral Roll for LMC election was released on 14th October, 2022. They demanded the Government to conduct election of LMC within 2022.**

(b) MPYCC in their Press Release issued on 9.11.2022 expressed their serious concern over the alleged delay in distribution of land compensations to land owners of the proposed extension of NH-6 and NH-306. They demanded NHIDCL to immediately distribute compensation to the land owners and they maintained that MPYCC will take necessary measures in this regard.

**11.11.2022 :** Friday Political Session of MPCC was held on 4.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Sangzela Tlau, Secretary, MPCC chaired the Political Session and about 60 (sixty) members attended. Pu R. Vanlaltluanga of Serchhip who joined Congress party recently delivered a speech wherein he spoke on his confidence under the leadership of Pu Lalsawta and also stated that he wanted to become MLA to serve the people. Party President Pu Lalsawta also addressed the Political Session in which he stressed upon the importance of unselfishness in choosing MLA candidates. He also challenged MNF party to withdraw their support to Congress party in Mara Autonomous District Council.

**14.11.2022 :** MPCC Media Chairman, Dr. Lallianchhunga convened a Press Conference today @12:30 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club with regard to the alleged undue increase of Property Tax by Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC). Dr. Lallianchhunga alleged that the Property Tax being collected by AMC has been increased at the rate between 60% to 80 % compare to last year. He alleged that AMC has hike the rate of Property Tax as under:

 **2021-2022 2022-2023 Increase Increase %**

 Rs. 780/- Rs. 18110/- Rs. 17330/- 2221.79%

  Rs. 350/-  Rs. 2057/- Rs. 1707/- 487.71%

 Rs. 1238/- Rs. 6682/- Rs. 5444/- 439.74%

 Rs. 1198/- Rs. 5864/- Rs. 4666/- 389.48%

 Rs. 1192/- Rs. 5312/- Rs. 4120/- 345.63%

 Rs. 1008/- Rs. 3222/- Rs. 2214/- 219.54%

 Rs. 1673/- Rs. 6067/- Rs. 4394/- 262.64%

 Rs. 1600/- Rs. 4584/- Rs. 2984/- 186.5%

 He demanded revision of the existing rate of hike of Property Tax and to conduct reassessment on Property. He further requested AMC to return the Property Tax that had already been collected at the new rate as provided by the Mizoram Municipalities (Property Tax) Management Rules, 2014, Rule 28(1). He also calls for immediate establishment of Municipal Appellate Tribunal to resolve grievances on Property Tax.

(b) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 14.11.2022 alleged MNYF of making false and baseless statement by claiming that all big developmental/infrastructure works within the State were implemented under Pu Zoramthanga's led MNF Ministry. MPYCC held that all big infrastructure projects viz. Tuirial HEP, Medical College etc. had been developed/constructed during Congress Ministry. It also slammed MNYF for allegedly giving undue credit to Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram over the allotment of Rs. 6664 crores for construction of road project in Mizoram by Ministry of Transport &amp; Highways.

****14.11.2022 :** (a) On 14.11.2022 @11:00 a.m., BJP Mizoram Pradesh held Political Session at Atal Bhawan, Upper republic, Aizawl. During the meeting, Pu P. Sanghmingthanga State BJP Secretary and Pu Andrew Lalhmachhuana, State Yuva Morcha Treasurer gave report on their activities and party President Pu Vanlalhmuaka delivered a speech and inducted 2 (two) new members from Bawngkawn, Aizawl into BJP. In his speech, Pu Vanlalhmuaka stated that one influential politician and his supporters from Kolasib are anticipated to join BJP. As many as 40 (forty) members attended today's Political Session.**

(b) BJP Mizoram Pradesh organised a gathering in front Aizawl City Park today @2:30 p.m., in protest against the alleged objectionable remarks made by Shri. Akhil Giri, Trinamool Congress (TMC) Minister of W. Bengal, against Hon'ble President of India, Smt. Droupadi Murmu. Pu K. Laldinthara, Spokesperson BJP Mizoram Pradesh presided over the protest gathering in which Pu Vanramchuanga, State BJP Gen. Secretary delivered a speech. They also displayed placards condemning the derogatory remarks made by Akhil Giri saying that it is an insult to the constitutional structure and they also shouted a slogan demanding his resignation from ministership. The protesters dispersed peacefully @3:00 p.m.

**15.11.2022 :** (a) MPYCC held its Executive Meeting on 15.11.2022 at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl under the chairmanship of their President, Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka. Shri. Sofiqul Wazid, Secretary, Indian Youth Congress also attended the meeting and he delivered a speech. In his speech, Shri. Sofigul Wazid accused MNF party of being deceitful towards BJP, their allied party. He also praised MPCC for its manifesto for 2023 election and is also confident of the formation of UPA Government at the Centre in 2024 election. MPYCC President Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka also said that Bharat Jodo Yatra recently organised by INC in India has elevated Congress party into new height in politics.

(b) MPCC issued a Press Release on 15.11.2022 regarding the visits of Sihthiang, Saikhawthlir and Chuhvel villages by Pu Lalrindika Ralte MLA today. Speaking at these villages, Pu Lalrindika Ralte stressed upon the importance of having good government by alleging that Mizoram will deteriorate if MNF form Government again. He stated that Congress Party is preparing to form Government in the next election and invited the people to remove MNF from power.

**15.11.2022 :** (a) MPYCC held its Executive Meeting on 15.11.2022 at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl under the chairmanship of their President, Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka. Shri. Sofiqul Wazid, Secretary, Indian Youth Congress also attended the meeting and he delivered a speech. In his speech, Shri. Sofigul Wazid accused MNF party of being deceitful towards BJP, their allied party. He also praised MPCC for its manifesto for 2023 election and is also confident of the formation of UPA Government at the Centre in 2024 election. MPYCC President Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka also said that Bharat Jodo Yatra recently organised by INC in India has elevated Congress party into new height in politics.

(b) MPCC issued a Press Release on 15.11.2022 regarding the visits of Sihthiang, Saikhawthlir and Chuhvel villages by Pu Lalrindika Ralte MLA today. Speaking at these villages, Pu Lalrindika Ralte stressed upon the importance of having good government by alleging that Mizoram will deteriorate if MNF form Government again. He stated that Congress Party is preparing to form Government in the next election and invited the people to remove MNF from power.

**17.11.2022** : (a) Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman, MPCC Media Department convened a Press Conference on 17.11.2022 @12:30 pm at Aizawl Press club and about 18 (eighteen) media persons attended. During the Press Conference, Dr. Lallianchhunga alleged that due to failure of MNF Ministry in financial management, Mizoram is in debt trap. He alleged that there have been huge increases of debt during the 3 years regime of MNF, an increase from Rs.7315 crores in 2018 (during Congress Ministry) to Rs.12553.08 crores in 2022. He also stated that in 2020-2021, MNF Ministry had spent Rs. 1617.89 crores for payment of debt while only Rs. 1125.97 was allocated for Capital outlay.

(b) MPYCC issued a Press Release on 17.11.2022 in which they expressed their serious concern over the alleged failure of the Government in payment of pension benefits and GPF to retired Government employees. They stated that Mizoram Civil Pensioner Association had also sent SOS message to Hon'ble Union Finance Minister on 29th September, 2022 in this regard. They claimed that Government of Mizoram have not yet sanction a total amount of Rs. 24,987 lakhs of pension benefits and GPF of 1367 pensioners and they urged the Government to settle and distribute pension benefits to pensioners before 2022 Christmas. Leaders of MPYCC also submitted a letter to Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram in this regard today.

****18.11.2022** : Friday Political Session of MPCC was held on 18.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lalringliana Khiangte, Secretary MPCC chaired the Session and about 60 (sixty) members attended. Pu Lalrinawma, Ex-Deputy Speaker addressed the Political Session in which he spoke about the alleged disproportionate assets and Corruption Cases of Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram. He alleged that Government of Mizoram refused to appeal the corruption cases of Pu Zoramthanga in High Court and held that despite the acquittal of Pu Zoramthanga from corruption case, people will show their verdict in the next election. Pu Lalhriatrenga Chhangte, Secretary MPCC also gave report on their spot visits of the collapsed Maudarh stone quarry.**

****21.11.2022** : Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) in its Press Release issued on 21.11.2022 expressed regret and shock over undue delay in non-payment of salary to its employees by the State Government. It also considered excessive delay in payment of salary to government employees as deprivation of their right. It also stated that such delay in payment of salary caused burden to those who are taking loan as they have to pay penalty for late payment of EMI. As per the RTI information, the state liability increased to Rs. 12,553.08 Crores during 3 years of MNF government and they believed that the present government will be blamed by the new generations. It further urged the state government to immediately pay 7 (seven) months pending salary of members of Local Council and Village Council.**

****22.11.2022 :** Dr. Lallianchhunga, MPCC Media Chairman convened a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 22.11.2022 @12:00 noon. As many as 21 (twenty one) media persons attended the Press Conference. In his Press Statement, Dr. Lallianchhunga alleged that Mizoram is now facing the worst economic crunch since its attainment of Statehood. He alleged that incapability of the Government to pay salaries and pension benefits on time to its employee and huge liabilities on Health Care Scheme indicates failure of the State Government on financial management. He also accused leaders of MNF of justifying themselves instead of solving the financial problems. He also accused MNF Ministry of failing to have Surplus Budget and also alleged that there is no document available to proof that the incumbent Hon'ble Finance Minister of Mizoram is expert in financial management. He also appealed the people of Mizoram to support Congress party for the formation of good and responsible Government in Mizoram.**

****23.11.2022 :** (a) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) issued a Press Release on 23.11.2022 in which they accused Pu Lalthlengliana, Vice President, MNF of making insulting speech against Congress party on 21.11.2022 by allegedly saying that 2 (two) Ministers and MLA (MYC Chairman) had tendered resignations during 10 years of Congress Ministry. MPYCC alleged that as stated by Pu Lalthlengliana, 2 (two) Ministers and MYC Chairman had tendered resignations to facilitate free and fair investigation on the allegations levelled against them by opposition parties and all are proved innocent/acquitted. Meanwhile MPYCC dared Pu Lalthlengliana, if MNF Ministers would do the same. MPYCC held that during Congress rule, Pu Lal Thanzara, the then Health Minister; Pu Lalrinmawia Ralte, the then EF&amp;CC Minister; Pu Lalsawta, the then H&amp;TE Minister; Pu T. Sangkunga, the then MLA &amp; Chairman, MYC; Pu RL Pianmawia, the then MLA &amp; Govt. Dy. Chief Whip and Pu PC Zoramsangliana (L), the then Transport Minister, had tendered resignations taking moral responsibilities on various incidents and accusations leveled against them. They also maintained that due to the alleged corruptions and failure in discharging their responsibilities, Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister, i/c Finance &amp; PWD; Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Hon'ble Minister of State, Tourism, etc., Pu Lalruatkima, Hon'ble Minister of State Rural Development, etc. and Dr. K. Beichhua, Hon'ble Minister of State, Excise &amp; Narcotics, etc. should also tender resignation for free and fair conduct of investigations.**

(b) On 22.11.2022, Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC visited Ratu village and conducted spot verification of Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS). During the spot verification Pu Lalsawta observed that Ratu Large Area Multipurpose Scheme (LAMS)/(PACS) was established in 2013 and there are 1,111 Account Holders and 411 Share Holders. NABARD has provided vehicle and Turmeric grinding machine to Ratu PACS. During his visit, Pu Lalsawta stated that Congress party's main objective is to uplift farmers and Congress party will implement PACS if they form Government. MPCC issued a Press Release in this regard on 23.11.2022.

**25.11.2022 :** MPCC held Friday Political Session on 25.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Dr. Henry Zodinliana Pachuau, President, All India Professionals' Congress (AIPC), Mizoram Chapter chaired the Political Session and about 60 (sixty) members attended. During the Political Session, Prof. Lalhriatpuii, HOD, Department of Economics, MZU gave presentation on the topic "Poverty in Rural Mizoram: An Analysis from Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index (MPI)". Prof. Lalhriatpuii said that MPI is the poverty index that captures the percentage of households in a country deprived along three dimensions of well-being- monetary poverty, education, and basic infrastructure services to provide a more complete picture of poverty. She mentioned that in 2011-2012, BPL comprises 20.04 % of Mizoram population and alleged that Mizoram do not have proper survey on poverty. She also highlighted advantages of survey of poverty through MPI and also suggested the following to curb poverty in rural areas:

 i) To know the actual condition of the rural poor through MPI and provide  assistance accordingly.

 ii) Introduction of more developed/improved Centrally Sponsored Scheme.

 iii) Development of education sector.

 iv) To initiate for distribution of better nutrition.

****29.11.2022 :** (a) On 29.11.2022 the 12th General Assembly of Mara District Congress Committee (MDCC) was held at Laila Hall, College Veng, Siaha. Pu Lalsawta MPCC President, Pu Lalthanzara MPCC Vice President and other leaders of MPCC also attended the General Assembly. During the General Assembly, Pu Lalsawta reportedly inducted 240 (two hundred forty) new members into Congress Party and also announced Pu N. Chakhai MCS (Rtd.) as Congress party official candidate in Siaha Assembly Constituency for 2023 General Election. Pu TT. Vakhu, Vice President, MDCC presided over the General Assembly and Pu Lal Thanzara, MPCC vice President; Pu S. Hiato, President, MDCC; Pu KT Rokhaw MLA; Pu R. Lalrinawma Gen. Secretary MPCC and Pu H. Malvina, CEM MADC also delivered speeches.**

(b) MPCC Treasurer, Pu Zodintluanga Ralte MLA has been on tour visiting villages under Thorang Assembly Constituency. Pu Zodintluanga Ralte has reportedly visited as many as 21 (twenty one) villages including New Sachan and Marpara which he visited today. He held public meeting in each village and in his speeches, Pu Zodintluanga Ralte criticised the ruling MNF Government alleging that the Government is neglecting Thorang area.

****30.11.2022 :** Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC held a meeting with Office Bearers of South Tuipui Block-I Congress Committee, Media Cell, Block Youth Congress and Block Mahila on 30.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at PWD IB, Hnahthial. Pu Lalhmingliana Lianhna, President, South Tuipui Block-I Congress Committee chaired the meeting and Pu Lalsawta delivered a speech. During his speech, Pu Lalsawta declared Er. C. Laldintluanga of Hnahthial Model Veng as the party official candidate of South Tuipui Assembly Constituency for 2023 General Election. Er. C. Laldintluanga and Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President MPCC also delivered speeches.**

**01.12.2022:** On 30.11.2022, MPCC conducted discussion programme on the topic 'Decentralization of power' at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lalremsanga, Secretary MPCC presided over the discussion and Dr. Lallianchhunga, Chairman MPCC Media Department give keynote address on the topic. In his keynote address, Dr. Lallianchhunga stressed upon the significance of decentralization of power for development. He also spoke on urban local bodies and alleged that Aizawl Municipal Corporation is a burden to the people and said that its need transformation. MPCC is scheduled to conduct Discussion Programme on selected topic on every Wednesday.

**2.11.2022 :** On 2.11.2022 @11:00 a.m., MPCC's Friday Political Session was convened at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Rev. J. Chalhlira, Secretary MPCC presided over the Session and about 60 (sixty) members attended. Party Vice President, Pu Lal Thanzara addressed the Political Session wherein he underlined the various infrastructural development works like broad-gauge railway, Lengpui Airport, Falkawn Referral Hospital, etc. that had allegedly been established during Congress regime. He also alleged that the maladministration of MNF Ministry proved the supremacy of the Government under Congress rule. He also accused MNF Ministry of failing to fulfill their assurance and policy. He also mentioned certain failures of MNF Ministry in financial management. He also claimed to have the best Chief Ministerial candidate among political parties in Mizoram.

****06.12.2022 :** (a) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) issued a Press Release on 6.12.2022 in which they slammed the State Government over the alleged adverse remarks against implementation of Programmes/Projects funded by Central Government by most of the Union Ministers during their visits of Mizoram. MPYCC also alleged Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister of claiming to have received huge amount of funds under Jal Shakti Ministry, but maintained that Hon'ble Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel who recently visited Mizoram informed media persons about the poor implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission. They accused financial mismanagement under MNF Ministry and insisted the Government to clarify the utilisations of Central funds.**

(b) On 6.12.2022 @1:00 p.m. Office Bearers Meeting of MPCC was held at Lalthanhawla Auditorium, Congress Bhavan, Aizawl. Pu Lalsawta, President MPCC presided over the meeting and about 80 (eighty) members attended. The meeting resolved the following points:

 i) To close down Congress Bhawan during Christmas season from 16th  December, 2022 and reopen on 9th January, 2023.

 ii) To release Party Manifesto No.2 during February, 2023.

 iii) To hold discussion again on the letter received from Dy. Chief Minister  of Mizoram regarding Border Issue.

**09.12.022:** (a) On 9.12.022 @11:00 a.m., MPCC held Friday Political Session at Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Rev. L.R Colney, Secy. MPCC presided over the Session and about 60 (sixty) members attended. Dr. Lallianchhunga, Gen. Secretary &amp; Spokesperson MPCC addressed the Political Session wherein he stated that Congress Party is the party which safeguard freedom of religion in India and accused BJP of advocating Hindutva. He also said that Mizoram needs leader like Pu Lalsawta, who have integrity and free from corruption.

(b) MPYCC in its Press Release issued on 9.12.2022 expressed their appreciation to Students Self Support Union (SSU) for organizing Vision 2023, a platform for political parties to propagate their party manifesto. They also praised Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC for announcing at the Vision 2023 that Congress Party will give priority to farmers. MPYCC also slammed MNF party for not sending representative at the Vision 2023.

**12.12.2022 :** MPCC in its Press Release issued on 12.12.2022 expressed their gratitude and support to Mizoram Synod for resolving to take initiative to combat corruption and to reform politics in Mizoram, in the recently concluded 99th Mizoram Presbyterian Kohhran Synod Inkhawmpui (Synod General Assembly) held at Khatla Presbyterian Church during 6th to 11th December, 2022. It also appeals Congress party members to support the Church in its drives against corruption and reformation of politics.

**13.12.2022 :** (a) MPCC issued a Press Release on 13.12.2022 with regard to the introduction of Uniform Civil Code (UCC) in Rajya Sabha on 9.12.2022. MPCC strongly protested against the introduction of Bill and alleged that UCC is a threat to Mizo, Christian and other minorities in India. It also alleged that UCC will do away with the customary law and it aims to promote Hinduism. The Press Release also claimed that Congress and other opposition parties had been opposing the introduction of this Bill. It also accused Pu K. Vanlalvena MP (Rajya Sabha) of deliberately evading the introduction of the Bill at the Upper House. It further urged the political parties, NGOs, Churches to jointly take initiatives against the passing of the Bill.

(b) Mizoram Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (MPYCC) organised Advance Christmas Programme on 13.12.2022 @12:00 noon at City View resort, Durtlang. Pu Ngurdingpuia Pachuau, Treasurer MPYCC presided over the function in which Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka President, MPYCC delivered a speech. In his speech, Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka stated that MPYCC had played an important role for the people of Mizoram during Covid-19 pandemic. He also praised members for their contribution for the party and urged them to take initiative for the formation of Congress Ministry in 2023 Election. About 70 (seventy) members attended the Advance Christmas Programme.


**14.12.2022 :** MPYCC issued its Press release on 14.12.2022 and expressed its regret over the hacking of the Facebook Page of MPYCC President Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka. It stated that Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka's Facebook Page which has 13,463 followers had been hacked since November, 2022 and the hacker has started uploading pictures and messages on the Facebook Page. It also appealed the people to know that all the pictures and messages uploaded on the stated Facebook Page are not posted by Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka. In this regard, Dr. Lalmalsawma Nghaka filed an FIR at Cyber Crime Police Station on the same day.

****15.12.2022 :** Pu Lalsawta, President, MPCC convened a Press Conference on 15.12.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and it was attended by 10 (ten) media persons. In his Press Statement, Pu Lalsawta appealed politicians and the people of Mizoram to take measure for reduction of election expenditure in 2023 election. He also urged the people to refrain themselves from putting financial burden to candidates so as to ensure free and fair election. He also accused MNF Ministry of unable to provide state matching share in many projects and held that MNF Ministry fails in financial management. He also stressed upon the significance of good governance and alleged that due to absence of good governance, some people are taking law into their own hand.**

**16.12.2022 :** MPCC held closing function of Congress Bhawan for the year 2022 on 16.12.2022 @12:00 Noon at Golden Hall, Congress Bhawan, Aizawl. Pu Lal Thanzara, Vice President MPCC presided over the function and Rev. Zosangliana Colney delivered a devotional speech and about 140 (one hundred forty) members attended. Pu Zodintluanga Ralte MLA &amp; Treasurer MPCC, Pu John Rotluangliana, MPCC PAC Member; Pu John Siamkunga, Gen. Secretary, MPCC and Pi Vanlalawmpuii Chawngthu, President, Mizoram Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee (MPMCC) delivered speeches. Party President, Pu Lalsawta reportedly inducted 275 (two hundred seventy five) new members into Congress party and also delivered a speech.

****22.12.2022 :** MPCC issued a Press release on 22.12.2022 in which they alleged that Government of Mizoram have a total of 22,490 pending Medical Reimbursement Bills amounting to Rs. 6,31,250,126/- under Mizoram State Health Care Scheme (MSHCS) as on 30th November, 2022. It also alleged that during the current year, 39,505 people have been registered under MSHCS and the total pending bills is equivalent to 56% of the total no of registered. It further claimed that as per RTI report, no MR Bill has been paid for the last two years, i.e. during 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 financial years. It also held Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister accountable over the undue delay in payment of Healthcare bills and alleged that the Hon'ble Chief Minister neglected MSHCS. The Press Release also claimed that Congress party give priority to Health Sector and Falkawn Referral Hospital had also revamped by Congress Ministry and transformed it into Medical College. It also assured that Congress party will introduce a reliable Healthcare scheme if it forms Government in the next election.**