**4.1.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.1.2022 stated that leaders of PC Party held a meeting with Myanmar MsP/MsLA on 30.12.2021 @12:00 Noon at Mualpui, Aizawl. It also stated that during the meeting, leaders of PC party assured them to extend possible necessary assistance in their fight for democracy, and in case, Indian officials unable to accept them as political refugees, they intended to take necessary action to European Union Countries, Canada, Australia etc. for the same. It further stated that Pu Laldinkima Sailo (grandson of Brig. T. Sailo), Lecturer at Singapore University, who attended the meeting, also assured them to take necessary action in facilitating a platform to interact with other developed countries. The meeting was attended by 6 (six) PC Party leaders led by Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, PC Party.

**1.2.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on BOOK1.2.2022 condemned the government for not paying attention and turning a deaf ear to the various demands of the Provisional employees Association (PEA). It criticized the government for stopping an existing scheme for regularization of Provisional employee and demanded the government to revoke the same. It further demanded the Chief Minister to fulfill his promise to regularize 5 (five) senior Provisional employees in every departments and it also expressed their intention to support the steps taken by the PEA till the very end.

****17.1.2022:** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party in its Press Release issued on 17.1.2022 stated that PC Party Office Re-opening Function was held under the guidance of Pu Vanlalruata, PC Party Senior Vice President the same day @12:00 Noon at PC Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. It also stated that delivering a speech, Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu, Vice President PC Party stated that he re-announced that in the coming General Election 2023, their party is willing to have alliance with those who wanted to fulfil PC Party's policy as already stated by Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, President PC Party. He also stated that Areca Nut smuggling, which is being widely discussed in the state depicted trade opportunities due to the strategic location of the state and in view of this, he urged MNF government to explore business opportunities for the welfare of youths within the state.**

****27.1.2022 :** (a) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued yesterday, i.e., 26.1.2022 expressed regret over the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases. It requested the government to take more effective measures and to pay due importance to the suggestions of the opposition towards preventing further spread of the virus. It also requested the government to strengthen VLTF and LLTF across the State and at the same time, appealed the public to be careful and follow Covid-19 safety guidelines issued by the government.**

(b) PC Party Youth General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 27.1.2022 wherein it expressed regret over the occurrence of house fire which burnt down 2 (two) dwelling houses before the Fire &amp; Emergency Services Department could douse the fire at Hunthar, Aizawl yesterday, i.e., 26.1.2021. It stated that PC Party Youth General Headquarters has called for conduct of an inquiry and study of the Fire department after an incident of fire destroyed DC Office and other buildings on 17.12.2021. In this regard, it raised questions as to whether staffs of Fire department have undergone proper training; possess adequate and proper equipment, or whether incompetency and negligence exist on their part in the discharge of their duties. It urged the government to conduct proper inquiry and investigation of the Fire department.

**4.2.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 4.2.2022 alleged that people of Mizoram faces perpetual shortage of power supply due to abandonment of Bairabi Hydel Project by the Congress and MNF governments of the last 35 (thirty five) years. It also sent a message to both the parties not to blame each other as they are both responsible for the current shortages in supply of electricity.

**7.2.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.2.2022 expressed disappointment over excessive hike in the monthly electricity bills due to engagement of additional 973 (nine hundred seventy three) numbers of staffs under Power &amp; Electricity Department. It stated that 2958 (two thousand nine hundred fifty eight) staffs are presently working out of the total sanction post of 2140 (two thousand one hundred forty) posts, which resulted in over-employment by 973 (nine hundred seventy three) staffs including 165 (one hundred sixty five) staffs employed for Diesel/Gas related work, despite not having any power generation from Diesel/Gas. It further stated that the salaries of the above stated overstaff workers are met from the monthly electricity bills and in this regard, it urged Pu R. Lalzirliana, P&amp;E Minister, to immediately look into the matter.

****9.2.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.2.2022 alleged that the statement made by Pu Tawnluia, Deputy Chief Minister that SEDP was devised to uplift the people and develop the State was baseless and an attempt to deceive the public. It stated that the above statement was made at the meeting of SEDP Executive Board on 8.2.2022 at Assembly Annexe Conference Hall. It further alleged that Pu Zoramthanga's led MNF government devised SEDP for the benefit of some MNF Party members only and not the general public. It stated that crores of rupees are intended to be spent for the benefit of MNF Party alone and it considered it to be subjugation of the people.**

****11.2.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.2.2022 stated that PC Party submitted objection to Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) regarding proposal for hike in electricity bills today. It also stated that PC party considered submission of proposal for hike in electricity bills by Power &amp; Electricity Department based on its budget estimate for 2022-2023 i.e., Rs. 762.42 crores to JERC as an attempt to loot the public, and strongly opposed such kind of proposal. It further considered inclusion of staff salary in the estimate expenditure on the stated proposal as unjustified as the salary of P&amp;E staff are paid from the state government's exchequer. It also stated that as per the present Electricity Act, power distribution should be under Corporation and a complaint in this regard was submitted to JERC to take necessary action for transfer of power distribution work to Corporation as per Section 19 of Electricity Act, 2003. It also stated that Mizoram has the capacity to generate sufficient power supply and expressed regret regarding the present and previous state government's inability to take necessary action for power generation.**

**16.2.2022** : PC Party General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 16.2.2022 which highlighted that MNF Party issued a Press Release in response to the Press Release issued by PC Party on 7.2.2022 regarding over-employment of hundreds of staffs under the P&amp;E Department. It stated that MNF Party highlighted several points against alleged unfounded allegations levelled by PC Party in the stated Press Release which could misled the general public. In this regard, it requested MNF Party to face PC Party leaders in a debate on local TV in order to let the people know

**17.2.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 17.2.2022 highlighted that the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister has both informed leaders of Mizoram Merchant Association (MIMA) on 16.2.2022 that they are in favour of opening of all shops and in this regard, it demanded the government to implement the same.

****18.2.2022:**  PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.2.2022 alleged that the people are in despair under a government that was chosen to lift up the State from its state of decline. It finds it hard to understand that the names of non-Mizos often gains an upper hand over the sons of the soil and it urged the people to wake up and reject the MNF government.**

**21.2.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 21.2.2022 which highlighted that a written petition was submitted to the Chief Minister today wherein it invited the MNF Party to have an open and live TV debate with PC Party with regard to the latter's assertion about the existence of over-employment of 973 (nine hundred seventy three) employees under the P&amp;E Department. It stated that MNF Party has countered the Press Release issued by PC Party on the above issue and the latter has invited for an open debate on earlier occasion and has received no reply from the party till date.

****22.2.2022:** PC Party General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 22.2.2022 wherein it conveyed best wishes to all the Assembly Members in the State Assembly Budget Session which commenced today. It requested the Members to set aside party feelings and not hesitate to make collective decisions for the development and betterment of the State, and to conduct themselves worthy of being a Christian MLA.**

**23.2.2022:** PC Party issued a Press Release on 23.2.2022 wherein it expressed serious concern over the manner in which the opposition MsLA has demonstrated their lack of confidence against the Speaker. It also expressed regret that a grim circumstance befalls upon the members of Mizoram Legislative Assembly just on the brink of commencement of the Budget Session and one that could interrupt the conduct of business of the House. It is of the opinion of PC Party that an inquiry needs to be first conducted concerning the allegation leveled against the Speaker by the opposition MsLA that he is unfit to conduct the business of the House and has tarnished the image of the House. In this regard, it requested Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister to take immediate steps. It also sent a message to all political parties to remain careful and not to resort to dirty politics that could cause panic among the people.

****25.2.2022:** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press release issued on 25.2.2022 highlighted that certain MsLA resorted to boycott of the ongoing Mizoram State Legislative Assembly Budget Session and then abruptly decided to participate in the sitting of the House because they follow an unprincipled person who incited them. It expressed regret that some MsLA resorted to immature conduct with no proper thought about the dos and don'ts inside the Assembly House. It advised all the MsLA not to cause any hindrance in the conduct of business of the House or panic among the people.**

****28.02.2022:** (a) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.02.2022 expressed regret over used of improper words by some MLAs in the ongoing Mizoram State Assembly Budget Session. It also stated their desire to use polite and proper words during Assembly Budget Session.**

(b) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.02.2022 stated that PC Party OB and Executive Members led by Pu R. Zatawna, Consultant held review of Architecture drawing of PC Party Office Building the same day. It also stated that Pu B. Vanlalhruaia, General Secretary gave report on action taken for construction of new Building for PC Party Office.

1.3.2022: PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued, on 1.3.2022 stated that it considered approval of Supplementary Demand without discussion during the ongoing Mizoram State Assembly Budget Session as negligence of the public's welfare. It also stated that as per Article 205 of the constitution all Appropriation Bills/Acts are only meant for making necessary adjustment in case of shortages of fund under the planned budget and not for meeting financialmismanagement or expenditure incurred for other purpose. It further stated that PC Party considered dependent on Supplementary Demand due to financial mismanagement and incurring huge expenditure other than the planned budget as a way of causing more burden and liability to the public.

**7.3.2022 :** (a) PC Party in its Press Release issued on 7.3.2022 highlighted that Mizoram government as a part of its initiative to increase power tariff consulted the public only for the sake of it. It stated that public hearing conducted by the P&amp;E Department on 3.3.2022 has no meaning and it was a mere eyewash attempt by the government and it urged the government not to organize such kind of wasteful consultation in future.

(b) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued today, i.e., 7.3.2022 praised the preparations underwent by both the ruling and opposition MsLA for the ongoing Mizoram State Budget Session. At the same time, it expressed regret that the conduct and words of certain ruling MsLA shows that they have no proper 'House Manner'. It stated that some ruling MsLA instead of tendering apologies tends to make excuses as if they have no fault when opposition MsLA pointed out certain dissatisfactory utilization of MLA Funds.

****9.3.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.3.2022 welcomed the visit of Mizoram by the Hon'ble Vice President of India and it appealed the visiting VVIP to give his best efforts on various requirements of the people that have been brought to his notice by State leaders. It also requested Pu M. Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India, to look into wrongful and incursive steps taken upon Mizoram territory by Assam so as to avoid further escalation of inter-state disputes as a result of the former's endeavor to reclaim its territory.**

****11.3.2022 :** PC party general headquarters in its press release issued on 11.3.2022 stated that ob meeting was held by the party today under the chairmanship of pu Lalhmangaiha sailo, PC party president, at pc party office. it also stated that they reviewed the upcoming 2023 general election and initiative taken for construction of new PC party office building. it further stated that people's government would be formed in the upcoming new term and their party would take part in the government.**

**14.3.2022:** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 12.3.2022 conveyed respects and good wishes to Lalrempuia of Lawngtlai for having delivered a touching and inspirational speech at the National Youth Parliament held on 10.3.2022 at the Central Hall of Parliament House, New Delhi.

****15.3.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release on 15.3.2022 urged the State government to fulfil the standing demands of employees under National Health Mission, Govt. of Mizoram. It strongly condemned delay in fulfilment of their demands such as timely payment of their salaries etc. by employees under NHM viz. Doctor, Nurse, Health Worker, Laboratory Technician, Driver etc. It further expressed their support of the ongoing agitation and grievances of NHM employees and urged the state government to immediately fulfil the demands of NHM employees before the situation escalates further.**

****16.3.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.3.2022 strongly condemned Pu Lalrinenga, Mayor AMC for hike in dumping of wastes rate within Aizawl city and considered the same as disregard and disrespect of the general public. It also considered the various actions taken for increasing burden to the general public by MNF government as an indication of negligence of public welfare by the state government. It further urged the authority to immediately revoke the stated action of Pu Lalrinenga Sailo, Mayor AMC.**

****17.3.2022:** Peoples' Conference Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued 17.3.2022 stated that Office Bearers' Meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President today at PC Party Office. It also stated that delivering a speech at the meeting, Pu Vanlalruata stated that PC Party will take steps as per the needs of the State. He also stated that PC Party would alliance with major parties to form government in the coming general election so as to resume the various development initiatives already undertaken by PC Party.**

**21.3.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.3.2022 highlighted that the work awarded to ZPM Unit for cement plastering of Armed Veng South Market Shed was executed in an extreme sub-standard manner and vendors depending on the market for their livelihood faces problems and has to shift out their stalls. It extended sympathy to those vendors and also condemned the work of ZPM Unit. It further demanded the Councillor of AMC Ward No.VIII to take step for prompt undertaking of necessary repair work.

**22.3.2022 :**PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued 22.3.2022 welcomed the verbal agreement arrived at between the National Health Mission employees Union (NEUM) and the government of Mizoram. It welcomed the government's willingness to consider the various standing demands of the NEUM, such as timely payment of salary, regular employment etc. It requested the government to take immediate follow up actions to fulfil the demands of the NEUM.

****24.3.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.3.2022 alleged that the Chief Minister has spoken meaningless words and the State should go on a need basis. Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, pointed out in the party's OB Meeting held today that the Chief Minister's recent statement can be taken to imply that speedier initiatives could have been taken if the Central government did not give one-third of the amount of fund given to the state of Mizoram. He said that the above statement was baseless and if the State receives only two-third of the fund expected from the Central government in the current year, then the government will not have fund for developmental works and there will also be a shortfall of more than Rs. 3000 crores for salaries and administration. The Press Release also highlighted that the party's draft manifesto for the next 2023 General Election was also laid and looked into in today's meeting. It stated that the party's manifesto will be as per the needs of the State and is expected to be finalized and announced shortly.**

****28.3.2022 :** (a) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.3.2022 stated that a function was held today on the occasion of the 7th Death Anniversary of Brig. T. Sailo, Founder of PC Party at PC Party Office, Treasury Square. Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, PC Party highlighted the various initiatives taken by Brig. T. Sailo such as setting up of Oil Depot at Vairengte, arrangement of connecting road to Manipur and Tripura, Bairabi and Serlui A &amp; B Hydel Projects, Aizawl Greater Water Supply Scheme, Aizawl Capital Extension Project, Lengpui Airport etc. He also highlighted Brig. T. Sailo concerns on assimilation and deportation of more than 20,000 (twenty thousand) Chakma foreigners, and setting up of ZORO for unification of zo ethnic people. It also stated that Dr. Lalrinliana Sailo s/o Brig. T. Sailo also delivered a speech.**

 (b) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.3.2022 stated that their information received stated that scores of members from various Political Parties intend to return to PC Party and expressed gratitude in this regard. It also stated that those who intend to return to PC Party are mostly prominent persons, who have contributed widely for development of the state.

****30.3.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.3.2022 stated that ZPM Vigilance Department and Media &amp; Publicity Department conducted on the spot verification of the ongoing work undertaken for installation of new CT Scan Machine at Aizawl Civil Hospital (the present CT Scan Machine has been out of service for a very long period) today which was already visited by them on 22.3.2022. It also stated that during their visit, Dr. Thanchungnunga, Medical Superintendent, Aizawl Civil Hospital apprised them of the action being undertaken for installation of the stated machine. It further stated that they will closely monitor progress of the installation work and at the same time, expected immediate completion of the same.**

****7.4.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.4.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, at the Party's Office Bearers' Meeting held today at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata stated that a new dawn will usher in for people who remain faithful to the policies and aims of PC Party. He also said that PC Party members has found renewed enthusiasm in recent times and the party is giving its best to give newborn hope to the Mizo people. He further said that recurrent collapse of bridge in Mizoram is shameful for the government, Company and the Contractor. He also stated the current Oil shortage would have been mitigated had the Oil Depot prepared at Vairengte by the late Brig. T. Sailo been developed**
**11.4.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.4.2022 highlighted alleged mismanagement of Rs. 1700 lakhs in the ongoing construction of roads in Mizoram-Assam border areas and it demanded the government to find out and award punishment to those responsible. It stated that only around Rs. 200 lakhs were actually spent for construction of the said border link roads even though the authorities claimed that Rs. 1900 lakhs have been expended.

****18.4.2022 :** PC Party in its Press Release issued on 18.4.2022 stated that PC Party OB Meeting was held today at PC Party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl under the guidance of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President. The meeting discuss about the next 2023 General Election and decided to take necessary steps to set up a 'People's Government'. It also stated that the party solemnly observed its 45th Foundation Day today as the actual date of formation of the party was yesterday, i.e., Easter Sunday.**

****20.4.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.4.2022 demanded the Mizoram government to give compensation as soon as possible to pig farmers, whose pigs have died due to the outbreak of African Swine Fever (ASF) in the State. It stated that even though Rs.5,84,97,000/- have been released by the Central government as compensation to pig farmers affected by the ASF from March, 2021 to December, 2022, yet the government continue to withheld the money till date and it slammed Dr. K. Beichhua, the concern AH&amp;Vety Minsiter.**

**26.4.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.4.2022 expressed regret for having Pu R. Lalzirliana as P&amp;E Minister, who give no concern about increasing power tariff. The P&amp;E Minister was quoted to have made a statement at MNF Mizo Hnam Run on 23.4.2022 that those who complained about power tariff hike has realized upon enquiry that there was not much increase in power tariff. In this regard, it alleged that the P&amp;E Minister has no real intention or commitment to ease the burden of the public by way of reducing power tariff.

****2.5.2022** : PC Party General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 2.5.2022 which stated that PC Party OB Meeting was held under the guidance of Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, President on 2.2.2022@ 12:00 noon at PC Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Lalhmangaiha mentioned in his speech that there is a need to take steps in line with the various needs of the State, and the answers lies in the PC Party Policy and Programme. He also said that had the successive governments over years took steps after studying the real requirements of the State and the people, the State would be self-sufficient by now in various ways.**

****6.5.2022 :** PC Party Women Wing General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 6.5.2022 wherein it welcomed and lauded the induction of 2 (two) MCS Officers, viz., Pi Sangchhin Chinzah and Pi Zodingpuii, into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and it conveyed best wishes for their future service for the state. It also welcomed the fact that majority of students who were awarded degrees by Pu Ram Nath Kovind, Hon'ble President of India, in the 16th Convocation of Mizoram University were women students and it considered to be a shining example of Mizo women's excellence and their vital role for the development of the state.**

**9.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.5.2022 congratulated the BJP for winning the 12th MADC Election with a high margin. It also praised the commitment and hard work rendered by the government officials, MPF and various NGOs for successful conduct of the election.

****10.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.5.2022 stated that an important meeting was held today under the chairmanship of Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, President, at PC Party Office Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo announced the names of 51 (fifty one) newly appointed leaders of the party, viz., Consultants, PAC Members, General Secretaries, Media Department etc. He also stated that they are striving to bring change in Mizoram and he invited all the appointed leaders to think of ways to uplift the state and Mizo nation. The meeting also looked into ways to finalize the party's election manifesto for the coming 2023 General Election.**

****11.5.2022 :** PC Party in its Press Release issued on 11.5.2022 welcomed the attainment of 50th anniversary by the Mizoram Legislative Assembly on 10.5.2022. It extends greetings to all sitting and former MsLA of the state and it thanked them for their service for the state and the people. It further praised Brig. T. Sailo, PC Founder President, who was awarded Padma Shree for his good works during his term as a Chief Minister and also adjudged as the cleanest politician among the Mizo politicians by the MZP.**

****17.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 17.5.2022 highlighted that PC Party Office Bearers' Meeting was held today at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalhmangaiha, PC Party President welcomed the speech made by Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister at the Golden Jubilee celebration of Mizoram Engineering Service Association (MESA) held at Berawtlang Multipurpose Hall, Aizawl on 14.5.2022, wherein the Chief Minister pointed out about the untapped potential of the state in the field of power generation. He further stated that PC government led by Brig. T. Sailo of the past 30 years has already found out ways to generate hydroelectricity from some rivers of the state. He added that successive governments has unfortunately taken no concrete steps with regard to hydropower generation and expressed regret that Mizoram remain one of the most backward states in the country with regard to power generation.**

****23.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.5.2022 highlighted that Pu V.L. Thazova, PC Party General Secretary, and other leaders of the party visited Oil Depot at Vairengte on 19.5.2022. It stated that Brig. T. Sailo's led PC government has set up a Rice Godown and Oil Depot at Vairengte in 1982 under its Emergency Crash Scheme to tide over any situation that could disrupt supply of essential commodities into the state. It stated that the above have been left discarded since 1984 after PC Ministry came to an end and it expressed regret that the much needed Oil Depot has not been set up by the government during the last 30 years.**

****24.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.5.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, PC Party President, at the party Office Bearers' Meeting held today at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo requested the government to grant the request made by the Federation of Mizoram Government Employees and Workers (FMGE&amp;W) for hike in DA as it is their right. He also supported the suggestion made to increase retirement age of government employees from the existing 60 years to 62 years of age. He also expressed the need to 'restructure' government departments so as to address the issue of shortage of staffs and pave the way for regularization of the services of non-permanent employees.**

****27.5.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 27.5.2022 stated that a meeting was held between Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, PC Party President, and Mizoram Journalist Association (MJA) at Press Club, Treasury Square, Aizawl, today. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo expressed his desire for having a good working relationship between political party and the press. He also praised the press persons for their commitment and hard work for the state and wishes them to continue to work courageously for the welfare of the people and the state. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo was accompanied by 4 (four) leaders of the party in today’s, interaction.**

**30.5.2022 :**

(a) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.5.2022 condemned grape wine seizures by the government without any mercy. It considered the step taken by the Excise Minister to be untimely as the people of Mizoram, especially farmers are severely affected by the pandemic. It further demanded the government to revoke its decision which led to wastage of farmers' produces worth lakhs of rupees.

(b) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.5.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu Vanlalruata, PC Party Senior Vice President at the Office Bearers' Meeting held on 30.5.2022 @ 12:00 noon at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata criticized and condemned recent grape wine seizures by the government which caused problems and destroy the livelihood of many Grape growers of Mizoram. He stated that it is government's duty to provide and protect the means of livelihood of its people and had the PC Party been in power, it would have taken measures for development of Grape growers.

**31.5.2022 :** PC Party Women Wing General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.5.2022 offered condolences to the children and families of Pi Rosangzuali who was believed to have been brutally murdered by her husband on 29.5.2022. It demanded the authorities to award fitting punishment to the culprit. It also condemned act of gruesome rape committed upon a minor boy at Kolasib on 28.5.2022 and it demanded for suitable punishment to the offender who is under police custody.

****3.6.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.6.2022 stated that Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, PC Party President held an interaction with Pu Francis Lalmalsawma Sailo, leader of Mizoram Grape Grower Society, at PC Party office on 2.6.2022 @ 12:00 noon. Pu Francis Lalmalsawma Sailo expressed his hope that their steps taken with the government to resolve their problems concerning seizures of wines will bear positive result. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo also expressed his opposition to the abrupt action taken by the government and demanded the government to immediately solve the problems of the grape growers. He also expressed regret over the problems faced by the grape growers of Champhai and Hnahlan area with regard to sale of their grape wines. He further demanded the government to pass the Wine Rules for more meaningful sale of local grape wines both within and outside the State.**

**6.6.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 6.6.2022 expressed support to the steps taken by Champhai NGO Coordination Committee in defence of grape growers of Champhai and its surrounding areas, and it demanded the government to fulfil their demands. It slammed the government for seizure of hard earned produce of the farmers. It further demanded the government to give back all the wines seized by the Excise &amp; Narcotics Department.

****10.6.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 10.6.2022 wherein it criticized the plan to introduce common school uniform for all government schools and it considered to be meaningless and having no significance for the development of the State. It stated that common school uniforms are often found in communist and dictatorial countries and they are means to control and suppress the people. It further stated that there is a need to reform the 'Education system' and the party has already devised a plan to introduce necessary reform.**

**16.6.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.6.2022 extended greetings to all domestic workers on the occasion of International Domestic Workers Day, which falls today. It stated that rising standard of living as well as need to earn source of livelihood led to increase in the numbers of domestic workers, and in this regard, it urged the government to take steps for the welfare, safety and more meaningful employment of domestic workers.

****17.6.2022 :** PC Party in its Press Release issued on 17.6.2022 stated that Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, PC Party President visited an Exhibition organized to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Mizoram Legislative Assembly at Assembly Annex and delivered a speech. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo appreciated celebration of the said anniversary by way of summoning Assembly Special Session. He also praised the manner in which the Mizoram Assembly conducts its business inside the House and considered it to be worthy of emulation by other States. He also highlighted the farewell message of Brig. T. Sailo, PC Party Founder President, when he was elected as Member of the Assembly for the second time, i.e., i) All MsLA should be fixated with development of the State regardless of party affiliation &amp; ii). Corruption is the biggest hurdle in the way of development of the State and the Assembly House should be used as major platform for fighting corruption.**

**20.6.2022 :** (a) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.6.2022 alleged that the need for rationing/control of fuel due to disruption of oil supply by landslide in Meghalaya clearly showed the negligence and unpreparedness of the government in ensuring supply of essential commodities to the people.

(b) PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.6.2022 expressed support to protests being held across the country against the Agnipath Scheme brought by the Central government for recruitment in the Army. It expressed desire for cancelation of the said scheme and in case of its implementation; it demanded the Central government to implement the announcement made to give assurance to Agniveers about their long-term career prospect.

**24.6.2022 :** PC Party in its Press Release issued on 24.6.2022 expressed opposition to the speech made by Pu Tawnluia, Dy. Chief Minister at a function organized by PHED at Berawtlang Multipurpose Hall the day before, i.e., 23.6.2022 wherein he was alleged to have spoken in favour of increasing water bills. It stated that hike in power and water bills would bring burden to the people and it expressed their opposition to any move that could add to the burden of the people who are already bogged down by COVID-19 pandemic.

****4.7.2022 :** PC Party in its Press Release issued on 4.7.2022 stated that leaders of PC Party and Former Legislators Association of Mizoram (FLAM) held a meeting today at PC Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President PC Party presided the meeting and during the meeting, leaders of FLAM stated the initiative being taken for conducting free and fair election and stressed the need for better collaboration among Political Parties, Churches and NGOs. The meeting was attended by 5 (five) leaders of FLAM led by Dr. JV. Hluna, Vice President and leaders of PC Party.**

**5.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.7.2022 highlighted that the party will declare its Economic Policy for the coming 2023 General Election on 14.7.2022 at their party's General Headquarters, Aizawl. It invited all those who are interested to attend the programme and to study its contents which will be based on in-depth analysis of 'Six Basic Needs'.

**7.7.2022 :**PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.7.2022 expressed support to the NHM Employees Union (NEUM) intention to avail mass casual leave due to non-consideration of their various demands by the government. It also earnestly requested the government to grant their demands and release their pending 3 (three) months' salaries which are withheld by the government.

****11.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.7.2022 stated that the meeting of Party OB held today @ 12:00 noon at PC Party Gen. Hqrs. Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl, decided to publicize the party's 'Economic Policy' on 14.7.2022. Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, PC Party President, stated that the party is having a policy that suits the needs of Mizoram and he appealed all the people to study their policy which will inter-alia, contains provision of work for all unemployed and house to all the homeless.**

****13.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 13.7.2022 stated that the party will announce its Flagship Programme, 'Khawl Hnuh Hmasawnna' tomorrow, i.e., 14.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their Party Office. It stated that the party's Economic Policy will contain ways to provide jobs to the youths, assistances to the jobless and how to go about with industrialization.**

****14.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 14.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, President announced the party's new economic policy, 'Khawl Hnuh Hmasawnna : Mi tin tan In leh Hna' (Industrial Driven Economy: 100% Housing and Employment), today at their Party Office.**

****15.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.7.2022 stated that the party's Economic Policy booklet were distributed in various higher educational institutions of Aizawl for the perusal of students and teachers today. It also stated that the booklet is available at their party office for Rs.20 and e-copy available at free of cost.**

****18.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.7.2022 highlighted that PC Party OBs Meeting was held under the chairmanship of Pu Vanlalruata, Senior Vice President, today @ 12:00 noon at their Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata stated that many people have already appreciated the Economic Policy announced recently by the party.**
****19.7.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.7.2022 stated that during a function held today at PC Party office, Pu Vanlalruata, PC Party Sr. Vice President stated that the state government should cease incurring of all unnecessary expenditures in response to the Finance Commissioner statement regarding the weak financial position of the state. He also alleged mismanagement of the state finance and incurring of huge expenditure on unnecessary things as the reason for the state's weak financial position. He further stated that the only way to overcome such weak financial position is to immediately cease all kinds of corrupt practices and luxury spending incurred by authority of the state. He further stated that PC Party is confident enough to bail out the state from the present weak financial situation.**

****19.7.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.7.2022 stated that during a function held today at PC Party office, Pu Vanlalruata, PC Party Sr. Vice President stated that the state government should cease incurring of all unnecessary expenditures in response to the Finance Commissioner statement regarding the weak financial position of the state. He also alleged mismanagement of the state finance and incurring of huge expenditure on unnecessary things as the reason for the state's weak financial position. He further stated that the only way to overcome such weak financial position is to immediately cease all kinds of corrupt practices and luxury spending incurred by authority of the state. He further stated that PC Party is confident enough to bail out the state from the present weak financial situation.**

**21.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.7.2022 stated that the first campaign on the party's Economic Policy was organized on 20.7.2022 at the residence of Pu Pawibawia, Chawnpui Veng, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, gave a Power Point Presentation on the party's Economic Policy stating that it is the Policy for the development and prosperity of the youths.

****22.7.2022 :** Peoples' Conference (PC) Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.7.2022 stated that leaders of PC Party led by Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President visited Zoram Mega Food Park, Khamrang today. Pu Vanlalruata stated that Industry and its proper use is the core for the state development. He also stated that to make proper use of Zoram Mega Food Park and other food parks and setting up of new industry are the foundation of development and PC Party intends to take necessary action in this regard. It stated that Zoram Mega Food Park was set up from the fund received from the central amounting to Rs.75 crores and made functional in the year 2018. At present, spice drying unit and MSME are being in used and Multi Fruit Processing Unit, Dry Warehouse and Cold Storage are kept idle. It further stated that PC Party intends to conduct spot verification of other machine operated industries within the state.**

****25.7.2022 :** PC Party held its Office Bearer's Meeting under the chairmanship of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, on 25.7.2022 @12:00 noon at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata spoke about the anxiety of the people due to the financial crisis of the State. He said that the present financial difficulties can easily be rectified if the Chief Minister cum Finance Minister has the will and courage to do it. A Press Release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

****26.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.7.2022 stated that the party held a meeting today at their Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl, wherein Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President demanded for dissolution of all SEDP Boards as an initial move towards fiscal consolidation of the State. He also demanded for closure of all house attendant provided out of government funds to Ministers, MsLA and high ranking government Officials.**

**28.7.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.7.2022 highlighted the statement made by Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President of the Party, concerning the action of the government on Grape and Wine wherein he has stated that several grape growers of eastern Mizoram were recently given assistance under FOCUS (Fostering Climate Resilient Upland Farming System) and there is a plan to give similar assistance to others. At the same time, he alleged that the government is causing problems to existing grape growers and prohibit wine making and its marketing and this shows that the government has no definite stand on the issue.

****01.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 1.8.2022 highlighted about the Office Bearers' Meeting held by the party under the guidance of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President, at their Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. It also congratulated and conveyed best wishes to Jeremy Lalrinnunga, Ainawn Veng (Government Complex) Aizawl, for bagging the Gold Medal in Weight Lifting at the Commonwealth Games, 2022.**

****02.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.8.2022 stated that the state is facing financial crunch due to neglect of PC government's policy of attaining self-reliance through power generation by successive governments over the years. It also stated that PC Party's Economic Policy, 'Khawl Hnuh Hmasawnna' should be implemented in order to overcome the present crisis situation and appealed the general public to cooperate in this regard.**

****8.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.8.2022 stated that PC Party Officer Bearers' Meeting was held today under the guidance of Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu, Vice President at their Party Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. It stated that whereas the incident of firing at the Mizoram-Assam border was mentioned in the joint statement issued by representatives of Mizoram and Assam at the border talk held on 5.8.2021, the armed incursion by Assam into Mizoram was nowhere mentioned. In this regard, it stated that if such statement is to be issued again at the border talk to be held between the two States on 9.8.2022, it should include condemnation of armed intrusion by Assam and demand for withdrawal of all Assam Police forces from the territory of Mizoram should be raised by Mizoram government's representatives as well as included in the joint statement.**
**16.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.8.2022 requested Pu Narendra Modi's led Central government to officially accept Myanmar nationals seeking shelter in Mizoram as 'Official Refugee'.

**22.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.8.2022 expressed grief over the demise of Pu Thantluanga (75) S/o Pu Hauva (L) Upper Kanan, Aizawl, former Treasurer, PC Party General Headquarters and ex-candidate of PC Party in Aizawl West-II MLA election. It also expressed condolences to the bereaved family members. It further appealed all PC Party members to attend funeral service to be held on 23.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at his residence in Upper Kanan, Aizawl.
**24.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.8.2022 urged for conduct of Lunglei Municipal Corporation (LMC) Election within this year, i.e., 2022. It welcomed the decision taken by the sitting of the Council of Ministers led by Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister, for setting up of LMC and it also requested Pu Tawnluia, Deputy CM, to take swift follow up action in this regard.

****29.8.2022 :** Pc Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.8.2022 highlighted about PS Party Office Bearers' Meeting held today at their party office under the guidance of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President. Pu Vanlalruata stated in his speech that PC Party will be an important member of the ruling government as the Party's support/leaning in the coming 2023 General Election will determine the election outcome. He also said that the State is entering into a deep clutch of poverty due to mismanagement of the State's finance by the ruling MNF government and the people should shun the MNF.**

**31.8.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.8.2022 urged the government to immediately pay pending healthcare bills amounting to Rs.72.15 crores. It alleged the government to be more pre-occupied with their own financial benefits rather than alleviating the sufferings of the families affected by illness. It also requested the government to pay the salaries of government employees for September, 2022 without any delay.

****2.9.2022 :** PC General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.9.2022 expressed disappointment over Pu Zoramthanga's led MNF government due to their inability to pay salary of government employees on time. It urged the state government to immediately pay salary of August, 2022 to employees of the state government. It also appealed the general public to extend their support to PC party in the coming General Election, 2023 in order to implement their party policy and programme.**

****5.9.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.9.2022 stated that PC Party Elected Office Bearer Meeting held today at the residence of Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, President PC Party announced the retirement of Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo from the post of President PC Party and in this connection, an important meeting is scheduled to be held on 7.9.2022 to discuss their party course of action. Delivering a speech during the meeting, Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, outgoing PC Party President expressed gratitude to the support rendered by their party members and entrusted his charge to Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President. He also appealed all party members and the general public to extend necessary support to the new leader in order to fulfil the vision of his father i.e., Brig. T. Sailo (L).**

****7.9.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.9.2022 stated that PC Party OB Meeting was held today @ 12:00 Noon at PC Party Office, Treasury Square under the chairmanship of Pu Vanlalruata, Sr. Vice President. It also stated that the meeting unanimously appointed Pu Vanlalruata as President, PC Party in place of Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, who stepped down from the post. Delivering a speech, Pu Vanlalruata stated that he intends to lead PC Party to be one of the ruling parties in the coming general election, 2023 and in this regard, appealed all party members to take necessary action. The meeting also decided that PC Party General Assembly should be held on 22.9.2022.**

****8.9.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters submitted a written letter to Chairman, Boundary Committee on 8.9.2022 wherein they stated that the inter-state boundary dispute between Mizoram and Assam states should be resolved through dialogue, and expressed their support of a Joint Meeting held by the two states. However, a Joint Meeting of representatives of Mizoram and Assam government held on 5.8.2022 issued a Joint Statement which condemned the death of Assam Police personnel due to border issues and at the same time not intentionally mentioned any condemnation of encroachment of Mizoram by Assam. As such, they issued a Press Release on 8.8.2022 regarding their unacceptance of the said Joint Statement. It also stated that a Joint Statement was issued again on 9.8.2022 which confirmed the previous statement. It further stated that Boundary Committee was not consulted concerning the stated Joint Statement. It also stated that Boundary Committee Meeting intends to convene a Meeting on 9.9.2022 with an aim to approve the said Joint Statement. In view of the above, they inform the Chairman, Boundary Committee that they will not be able to attend the meeting as there has been no response regarding their unacceptance of the said Assam-Mizoram Joint Statement, and they will no longer be in the Boundary Committee, if the said Joint Statement is not amended.**

**14.9.2022:** On 14.9.2022, MPC party submitted a memorandum to the Hon'ble Speaker, Mizoram Legislative Assembly requesting him to make amendment on the pension benefit system of MLAs. They urged the Hon'ble Speaker to fix pension age and to make pension benefit equivalent to all Ex-MLAs irrespective of the numbers of terms they were elected as MLAs.

**19.9.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party issued a press release on 19.9.2022 in which they insisted the Government of Mizoram to provide relief to Myanmar refugees and they also strongly criticized Myanmar military regime over its inhumane treatments of the people.

****22.9.2022 :** On 22.9.2022 @11:00 am, Peoples' Assembly Party held General Conference at Durbar Hall, PC Office, Aizawl. Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu, Vice President, PC Party, chaired the Assembly and Pi Lalrinmawii, President; Women Wing delivered a devotional speech. As many as 50 party members attended the General Assembly. The Assembly passed agenda pertaining to amendment of its constitution, 2023 Assembly Election, etc. Election of Officer Bearers was also held and the following were elected as OB's for the term 2022-2024:-**

 President : Pu Vanlalruata

  Sr. Vice President  : Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu

 Vice President : Pi Lalrinmawii Chawngthu

 Treasurer : Pu HK Liansawta

 The newly elected President Pu Vanlalruata addressed the gathering party members and he maintained that PC party will continue to implement the Sixth Basic Needs which was formulated by the founder of PC party, Brig. T. Sailo.

****26.9.2022 :** The newly elected office Bearers of People Conference party held its first meeting on 24.9.2022 at their Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata, President presided over the meeting and the meeting appointed the following as General Secretaries of PC Party:**

1) Pu B. Vanlalhruaia, 2) Pu H. Lalremsiama,  3) Pu Lalenkima Khiangte, 4) Pu Lalnunthara,  5) Pu Lalramthara and  6) Pu VL Thazova.
 The OB Meeting also appointed 13 Secretaries and 7 Joint Secretaries. At the meeting Pu Vanlalruata alleged that there has been absorption of business and masonry/construction works by non-tribals and held that this was due to failure of the Government in enforcement of law &amp; order. A press release was also issued in this regard today.

****27.9.2022 :** Office Bearers meeting of PC Party was held on 27.9.2022 @12:00 noon at PC office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu, Sr. Vice President presided over the meeting and 10 (ten) members attended. The meeting appointed Consultants and Executive Members of PC Party and also distributed portfolios to newly appointed Secretaries and Jt. Secretaries. At the meeting Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu slammed Ex-PC party leaders who now become leaders of ZPM for not incorporating Brig. T. Sailo's policies- 'Six basic Needs Policy and construction of dam at Bairabi' as a part of ZPM policy. He maintained that PC Party will implement Six Basic Needs Policy and construction of dam at Bairabi if they were a part of the Ministry in 2023 election.**

**28.9.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party issued a Press Release on 28.9.2022 in which they underlined the visits of Handloom Expo held at Aijal Club Park by their president, Pu Vanlalruata. During the visit, Pu Vanlalruata reportedly said that Mizo people have potential in handloom industry and handloom can be a source of livelihood for many people if there is market chain. Pu Lalramthara, Gen. Secretary accompanied the president today.

****29.9.2022 :** PC Party Youth General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.9.2022 expressed concern over delay in commencement of construction of New Market Building, which was dismantled in 2020 and condemned the state government in this regard. It urged the state government to take immediate necessary action for construction of the said building before the situation escalates. It strongly condemned Deputy Chief Minister and CEO, Smart City for telling lies to leaders of New Market Sumdawng Joint Association (NMSJA) regarding the time for floating of Tender for construction of New Market Building. It considered the Deputy Chief Minister and CEO, Smart City as not properly discharging their duty and urged to step down from their position.**

**3.10.2022 :** Peoples' Conference party issued a press release on 3.10.2022 in which they strongly condemned the alleged construction of a hut inside Mizoram by Assam people on 2.10.2022. They also alleged that Assam becomes problematic under MNF Ministry and also claimed that the incident took place as a result of the fear of Assam by the Boundary Committee led Pu Tawnluia, Hon'ble Dy. Chief Minister. They also praised MZP for taking initiative on border issue.

**10.10.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party in its press release issued on 10.10.2022 alleged that the population of non-Mizo has been increasing in various parts of Mizoram during the past few months. It urged the Government to take necessary measures like checking of ILP and illegal entry of non-Mizo into Mizoram.

****17.10.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 17.10.2022 stated that frequent incident of physical assault occurred across the state and the same indicated failure on maintenance of law and order by the state government. It also stated authorities and powerful persons deprived the general public on many occasions and alleged failure to discharge their duties by leaders of the state government as the reason. It further urged the state government to immediately examine itself for the same.**

****18.10.2022:** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.10.2022, stated that a function was held to study receipt of government revenue today at PC Party Office. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party stated that crores of rupees are believed to be missing from the taxes collected by the state government. He also stated that as per the report of the state government, only Rs.28,000/- was received from medical examination fee at the Hospital and only Rs.1,000/- was received as rental charge of various machines under PWD Department. The same cannot be true and urged the state government to clarify the matter.**

****19.10.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.10.2022 urged the concerned authority to take necessary action for immediate payment of Tribal scholarship to the students, which was reportedly sanctioned to Mizoram government on 4.10.2022 by the Central government. They insisted the state government to immediately release scholarship fund without delay before the students organize agitation. It also expressed their disappointment over the alleged delay in payment of salary, etc. under Mizoram government.**

****26.10.2022:** Leaders of PC Party General Headquarters held discussion on dilapidated road condition within Mizoram on 26.10.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at PC Party Office. During the discussion, the members expressed regret over extremely dilapidated road condition within the state and considered practice of corruption, used of sub-standard material and insufficiency of fund as the reason for poor quality of road within the state. Delivering a speech during the discussion, Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party stated that Political parties promised to provide better road prior to the election and the said pre poll election promise had not been fulfilled after the election due to lack of idea and courage. He also stated that Rs. 230 crores per year is required for maintenance of road as per the estimate of concern department. However, only around Rs. 40 crores was allotted for the same. He further stated that better road is one of the policies of PC Party and if the people really want better condition of road, PC Party should be voted into power. A Press Release in this regard was issued today**

**28.10.2022 :** People' Conference Party issued a Press Release on 28.10.2022 in which they maintained that PC is taking initiative to wipe out single party Government in Mizoram. It stated that PC party is against single party system of Government prevailing in Mizoram and has taken initiative since 2018 election for the formation of coalition Government. It also urged the people of Mizoram to abstain themselves from formation of single party Government.

****3.11.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party issued a Press Release on 3.11.2022 wherein they expressed their condolence on the sad demised of their Consultant, Pu Lalhmingthanga Ex-Dy. Chief Minister of Mizoram, who passed away on 3.11.2022 @12:40 am. They stated that PC party will always remember his valuable contribution for the people and state of Mizoram and also expressed their sympathy and prayer to the family of Pu Lalhmingthanga.**

****7.11.2022 :** Pu Vanlalruata, President, Mizoram Peoples' Conference Party held Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 7.11.2022 regarding the visits of Serlui B Small Hydel Project and Bairabi Dam Project by leaders of PC Party on 2.11.2022. In the Press Statement, Pu Vanlalruata alleged that out of the 3 (three) turbines at Serlui Hydel Project, 1 (one) turbine has always been damaged and it require repairing to generate more power. He also apprised media persons on issues relating to low level of water, part time workers, requirement of renovation of buildings, etc. of Serlui B Hydel Project. He also stated that Bairabi Dam Project is the state own Power project which already have Forest Clearance and Environment Clearance and the Government should pursue for implementation of the project to solve shortages of power supply in Mizoram. He also slammed Congress and MNF parties for their alleged lack of interest in Bairabi Dam Project.**

****9.11.2022**  Peoples' Conference Party issued a Press Release today, i.e., 9.11.2022 regarding the visits of their office by leaders of Former Legislator Association of Mizoram (FLAM), Pu JV Hluna, President and Pu Rochhunga Ralte, Treasurer today. During the visit, FLAM leaders held meeting with leaders of PC Party led by their President, Pu Vanlalruata in which they invited the support of PC Party for the conduct of smooth and peaceful General Election. PC party leaders also gave assurance to FLAM that they will take initiative for the conduct of free and fair election.**

****11.11.2022 :** On 11.11.2022 @12:00 noon, Office Bearers Meeting of Peoples' Conference Party was held at their office, Treasury Square, Aizawl under the chairmanship of their President, Pu Vanlalruata. At the meeting, Pu Vanlalruata expressed his disappointment and serious concern over the alleged distribution of land compensations on expansion of NH-306 to some residents of Mizoram by Government of Assam. He also denounced Mizoram Government of not opposing and ignoring the alleged initiative taken by Assam Government inside Mizoram.**

**15.11.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party in its Press Release issued on 15.11.2022 demanded the Government to immediately conduct verification of the ongoing construction of Mizoram Institute of Comprehensive Education (MICE) building at Tuikual 'N', Aizawl. PC party alleged that the construction of MICE building is sub-standard and the building design and electric wiring are inappropriate and further claimed that it will not be safe for the students.

**15.11.2022 :** Peoples' Conference Party in its Press Release issued on 15.11.2022 demanded the Government to immediately conduct verification of the ongoing construction of Mizoram Institute of Comprehensive Education (MICE) building at Tuikual 'N', Aizawl. PC party alleged that the construction of MICE building is sub-standard and the building design and electric wiring are inappropriate and further claimed that it will not be safe for the students.

**16.11.2022** : Peoples' Conference Party issued a Press Release on 16.11.2022 in which they claimed that PC Party leaders had found Chief Minister's official car B/R No. MZ-01 K-7707 at one picnic spot at Zuangtui, Aizawl yesterday (15.11.2022) while the Hon'ble Chief Minister was attending a function at Mizo Hnam Run. They alleged that Chief Minister's car has regularly been found at this place without the presence of Chief Minister or other officials and they asked the authority to look into this issue and to take appropriate action.

**17.11.2022**: On 17.11.2022, leaders of Peoples' Conference Party led by their President, Pu Vanlalruata, visited Solar Power Plant at Tlungvel village. During the visit, staff of the Solar Plant explained about the functioning of the Solar Power Plant and they also held discussion on the problems faced by the Solar Plant.

****21.11.2022**: On 19.11.2022, Peoples' Conference Party organised felicitation function of their party Treasurer, Pu HK Liansawta, who had been recently awarded 'Assam Rashtra Bhasha Parchar Samiti' by Government of Assam in Guwahati in recognition of his contribution for promotion of Hindi. The felicitation function was held at their party office in which Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party delivered a speech.**

****22.11.2022 :** On 22.11.2022 @2:00 pm, an Office Bearer meeting of PC party was held at their office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata, President, PC Party presided over the meeting and 6 (six) members attended. During the meeting, Pu Vanlalruata spoke about the liability of Mizoram and alleged that Mizoram is next only to Sikkim in term of having highest liabilities. He also said that the outstanding liabilities of Mizoram in 2022 will be Rs. 11,830.40 crore meaning every person including a new born baby will have liability amounting to Rs. 96,417.27.**

****25.11.2022 :** PC Party held Political Training on 25.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their office, Venghlui, Aizawl. During the Political Training Pu Vanlalruata, President, PC Party alleged that Government of Mizoram fails to safeguard the people and boundary of Mizoram. He alleged that Tripura and Assam has been encroaching Mizoram territory and Mizo inhabitant in that area are calling out for help. He also accused the Government of reluctant to protect refugees from Myanmar and Bangladesh.**

****28.11.2022:** On 28.11.2022, PC Party held a meeting to discuss their party Policy at their Office, Venghlui, Aizawl. During the meeting, Party President Pu Vanlalruata stated that creation of Mizoram into Special Economic Zone is the Economic Policy of MPC. He further stated that through Special Economic Zone, the economy of Mizoram can be boosted and Mizoram we be transformed into Trade Hub of India, Myanmar and Bangladesh.**

**30.11.2022:** Leaders of PC party led by their President, Pu Vanlalruata conducted spot verification of the ongoing construction work of Water Treatment Plan at Tanhril Mualkhang. Leaders of PC party were received by Pu Vanlalremruata E.E and Pu Hmingthanhawla A.E. and the PHED officials apprised them about the progress of construction work and they allegedly said that 92% of the work has been completed. The Water Treatment Plant is expected to pump 37 million liters per day of water which is sufficient to meet water requirement for Aizawl City. Leaders of PC party also reportedly discussed the necessity of Bairabi Dam Project with PHED officials.

****2.12.2022 :** Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party held a Press Conference on 2.12.2022 @12:00 Noon at PC Party Office, Treasury Square. During the Press Conference, he apprised media person that PC Party policy is to allow selling of liquor under proper restriction within the State. He also stated that it is apparent that adulterated liquors are abundantly available within the state and numerous numbers of youths had died due to alleged consumption of such adulterated liquor, and the same should be given immediate attention. He further stated that Mizoram has collected the lowest tax among the Indian states and it also collected tax from liquor since the last 30 years despite claiming Mizoram as total prohibition area. He also stated that the fund received by Mizoram from Central Government includes tax collected from liquor, and stressed the need to allow selling of liquor under proper restriction within the State considering the present condition. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

****5.12.2022 :** Office Bearers Meeting of PC party was held on 5.12.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their Office, Venghlui, Aizawl. During the meeting, Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party presented power point presentation on the advantages of Hydel Project over Solar Project. Pu Vanlalruata alleged that Hydro Electric Project is more suitable to generate electricity in Mizoram than Solar Project.**

****6.12.2022 :** PC party in its Press Release issued on 6.12.2022 expressed their regret over the remarks allegedly made on non-functioning of Zoram Mega Food Park by Shri Prahlad Singh Patel, Hon'ble Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti. PC Party stated that it is a shame for the State and alleged that the Mega Food Park is on the verge of defunct due to lack of initiative taken by the State Government. They also stated that Pu Vanlalruata, President PC Party had visited Zoram Mega Food Park during October, 2022. The Mega Food Park was established in 2018 with an estimated amount of Rs.75 crores.**

****07.12.022 :** On 7.12.022 @12:00 noon, PC Party organised consultation meeting on 2023 General Election at PC Party Office, Venghlui, Aizawl. Pu Vanlalruata, President presided over the consultation meeting in which Pu B. Vanlalauva, President PC Party Southern Headquarters delivered a speech. In his speech, Pu B. Vanlalauva held that the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram should either resign from Chief Ministership or as Finance Minister due to his alleged failure to bring development in the State. The meeting also reportedly deliberated upon future course of action of PC party for the formation of Ministry in the next election.**

****09.12.2022 :**PC Party commemorated International Anti-Corruption (IAC) Day by organizing a function at PC Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl on. 9.12.2022 @12:00 Noon. Speaking at the function Party president, Pu Vanlalruata said that the theme for 2022 AIC Day is "Uniting the World Against Corruption" and he invited political parties, churches, NGOs and the people of Mizoram to stand united in fighting against corruption.**

****13.12.2022 :** PC Party held a meeting on13.12.2022 @12:00 noon at PC Party Office Treasury Square, Aizawl. During the meeting, Pu Lalrinzuala Chawngthu Sr. Vice President PC Party addressed the meeting wherein he stated that PC Party will never accept the Uniform Civil Code (UCC) being introduced at Rajya Sabha. He stated that amid protests by the Opposition parties like TMC, MDMK, RJD, SP, CPI (M), NCP and Congress, Uniform Civil Code (UCC) Bill was introduced in Rajya Sabha. He also stated that due to its Special Provision under Article 371-G of the Indian Constitution, Mizoram can be exempted from UCC regime and stressed that necessary measure be taken against implementation of UCC in Mizoram.**

**21.12.2022 :** People Conference Thalai (PC Youth) issued a Press Release on 21.12.2022 in which they expressed their support to Aizawl Two Wheeler Taxi Association (ATTA) in their protest against the Government's decision to impose rotational plying of two wheeler taxi in Aizawl with effect from 2023. It also urged the Government to stop issuing two wheeler taxi permit for controlling traffic congestion in Aizawl city and to revoke order on rotational plying of two wheeler taxi in Aizawl as demanded by ATTA.

****23.12.2022 :** PC Party General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 23.12.2022 appealed the State Government to stress on maintenance of law and order as the general public are more excited for celebration of Christmas and New Year after a 2 (two)-year hiatus in celebration of the festival. It also appealed the general public to abide the rules and regulations prescribed by the state government so as to avert accident and any other untoward incident.**