****7.1.2022 :** Information received stated that in pursuance of complaint submitted by some Fish dealers regarding alleged supply of fish by non-Mizo fish dealers at lower rate, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) organized blockade of Aizawl bound vehicles carrying fish (for various fish dealers within the state) at the outskirt of Phunchawng, Aizawl in the morning of Dt. 7.1.2022 @4:00 a.m. and subsequently called off the blockade the same morning.**

 In this connection, a meeting was held in the evening @3:00 p.m. at MZP Conference Hall. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 20 (twenty) members including 10 (ten) fish dealers within the state led by Pu R. Laldinpuia of Hunthar attended the meeting. During the meeting, discussion was made regarding supply of fish within the state and they were advised to cooperate each other in this regard. The fish dealers within the state intended to form an Association in the coming week.

 Information received also stated that in connection with blockade of fish carrying vehicles this morning by MZP, fish dealers in Silchar, Assam held a Meeting the same day and decided to cease supply of fish to Mizoram w.e.f. 8.1.2022.

****10.1.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters office Re-Opening Function was held on 10.1.2022 @12:00 Noon at MZP Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl. Pu F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President, MZP presided the function and 23 (twenty three) members attended. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP delivered an encouragement speech at the function.**

****18.1.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters Extended OB Meeting was held on 18.1.2022 @11:00 a.m. at MZP President's Office Chamber. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 11 (eleven) members attended. The meeting discussed about the spot inspection/verification reports of schools constructed under NABARD fund and decided to re-look into the matter before holding a Press Conference in this regard.**

****19.1.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on the evening of 18.1.2022 stated that the dead body of Jovel Molsom (23) of Boktomohon, Gommati, Tripura was found at Tuizual Zau, Muallungthu, Aizawl District on 17.1.2022 @8:00 a.m. The incident occurred on the morning of 16.1.2022 and in this connection, Raju Singh (33) of Tuipuibari, Mamit District was the suspect. It also expressed disappointment over the crime committed by Brus against the Mizos within the state and urged the authority to award suitable punishment to the offender. It further expressed gratitude to Mizoram Police for immediate detection of the suspect and at the same time, expected to expedite the investigation.**

(b) 15 (fifteen) leaders of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP, met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram on 19.1.2022 @2:45 p.m. at his Office Chamber. During the meeting, leaders of MZP requested the Chief Minister to increase College Students' Study Fund, appoint Mizo Officer as Director, Higher Technical Education, and conduct offline (physical) classes for at least 6th Semester and above students. They also requested to set up Vathuampui RD Block and to take necessary action so as to enable farmers of Aitlang and Saihapui 'V', Kolasib District to harvest their betel nut plantation.  In connection with their request, the Chief Minister assured to look into the matters. In this regard, a Press Release was issued today.

****Dt. 21.1.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Executive Meeting was held on Dt. 21.1.2022 @12:00 Noon at MZP Office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 50 (fifty) members attended. The meeting decided to take necessary action for opening of Computer Study Centre at MZP Office for underprivileged students. The meeting also decided to take necessary action concerning selection of employees at Mizoram University so as to conduct recruitment based only on merit and to give priority to sons of the soil among eligible candidates. The meeting also appointed Pu Lalremruata Hlawndo, Sihphir Venghlun as North East Students' Organization (NESO) Coordinator. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.**

**28.1.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to Prof. KRS Sambasiva Rao, Vice Chancellor, Mizoram University on 28.1.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. wherein it requested the Vice-Chancellor to give preference to residents of Mizoram in various recruitments under Mizoram University. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****1.2.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held its Extended OB Meeting on 1.2.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 12 (twelve) members attended. The meeting decided that Pu Lalchhandama Ralte, Education Minister, should be met at his office chamber tomorrow, i.e., 2.2.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. in connection with alleged sub-standard construction of schools using NABARD loan at various places across the State and a Press Conference will be called on 3.2.2022.**

****3.2.2022 :** Ref. to DSI Part-V Dt. 1.2.2022, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters called a Press Conference on 3.2.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP led the Press Conference and he was accompanied by 5 (five) MZP members and 10 (ten) media persons attended. A Press Statement was issued which stated that works on re-construction/repairing of school buildings using NABARD loan amounting to Rs. 35 crores are being undertaken at various places across the state by the government of Mizoram. It stated that CB Engineering was allotted works for re-construction of 65 (sixty five) schools amounting to Rs. 25 crores and repairing works of 107 (one hundred and seven) schools amounting to Rs. 10 crores was allotted to Allied Concern. It further stated that MZP closely monitored the said works and in this connection, spot verification was conducted as far as possible. The following are their findings concerning re-construction/repairing of the stated schools :-**

 (i) Few school buildings were re-constructed/repaired as per the project estimate and were found satisfactory. At the same time, necessary adjustment/modification was made in some construction/repair works as per the necessity of the schools in consultation with concerned school authorities and leaders of respective localities/villages.

 (ii) Execution of the work was found unsatisfactory in most of the works. As per RTI reply furnished by Education Department, no specific work details was mentioned in the work order in respect of Repairing Work.

 (iii) A good numbers of the stated works are believed to be executed using barely 20 percent of the total estimate.

 (iv)  Sub-contract system was prevalently followed in the stated works and the real contractor/executor of the work received extremely less fund for execution of the work. For instance, third party contractor received around Rs. 10 lakhs out of the total estimate of Rs. 21.33 lakhs for re-construction of Khawzawl High School.
 (v) A good number of works were not properly executed. For instance, Completion Certificate was issued to the contractor of Govt. Khamrang High School building even though window glasses were not fitted.

 (vi) Most of the real executors/contractors were not aware of project detail and amount as most of the work supervisors appointed by the Consultancy Firms re-sold their contract work.

 It also stated that the matter was discussed yesterday with the Education Minister and concerned officials as MZP viewed the same seriously. It urged for immediate re-construction/repair of all sub-standard works and requested the concerned authorities not to clear the work bills before satisfactory completion of the works.

**7.2.2022:** Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP General Headquarters and Pu Lalhuapliana, Finance Secretary, MZP, left Aizawl for Laisawral, Lunglei District on 7.2.2022, in connection with incident of physical assault of Mizo youths by Chakma youths which occurred on 23.12.2021. As per input, they intend to organize a meeting with leaders of Laisawral village in order to avert such kind of incident in future. In this regard, 3 (three) leaders of MZP Headquarters Lunglei led by Pu Lalpeksanga, President, also left Lunglei for Bunghmun this morning to accompany the above leaders of MZP General Headquarters at Laisawral and to attend election programme of MZP Bunghmun Sub-Headquarters, Bunghmun.

**8.2.2022:** Ref. to DSI Part-V (a) Dt. 7.2.2022, leaders of MZP General Headquarters held a meeting with leaders of various NGOs of Marpara under the guidance of Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP at Marpara-I VC House on 8.2.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. During the meeting, leaders of MZP expressed their disappointment over incident of physical assault of youths of Laisawral village by Chakma youths which occurred on 23.12.2021 and expressed their desire that such incident do not recur in future. After the meeting, Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, MZP Vice President and Pu Lalhuapliana, Financial Secretary, MZP left Marpara for Aizawl.

****11.2.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Extended OB Meeting was held on 11.2.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP President's Office Chamber. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 11 (eleven) members attended. During the meeting, It was highlighted regarding alleged presence of irregularities in the recruitment of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) under Agriculture Department and filing of RTI in this regard today to the concerned department. The meeting decided to observe Zoram Ni (Zoram Day) on 5.3.2022 to commemorate Aerial bombing of Aizawl city on 5.3.1966. In this connection, the meeting also decided that suggestion for Zoram Ni function will be invited till 15.2.2022 and a meeting will be held on 16.2.2022 to finalise the function.**
****16.2.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held its Extended &amp; Adviser Meeting on 16.2.2022 at MZP President's office chamber, Aizawl. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP, presided the meeting and 16 (sixteen) members attended. The meeting decided to observe Zoram Ni (Zoram Day) on 5.3.2022 to commemorate the aerial bombing of Aizawl City the same day in 1966. It also decided to avail bank loan from Apex Bank for renovation of MZP Office. It further decided not to issue any statement in connection with the request received from FMGE&amp;W not to oppose their demand for extension of service of employees under the State government from 60 to 62 years of age.**

****25.2.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a meeting with leaders of Students' Union of various Colleges in Aizawl on 25.2.2022 @ MZP Office to discuss conduct of offline/physical classes for colleges. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 39 (thirty nine) members attended and it resolved the following :-**

 (i) Offline/Physical classes should be conducted in colleges.

 (ii) The state government should be requested to permit conduct of   physical classes in colleges, and demonstration should be  organized on 8.3.2022 in front of Vanapa Hall, if the state  government fails to fulfil their request before 4.3.2022.

 (iii) Physical/Offline classes should be conducted for all college   classes and if the same could not be implemented, at least final  semester class should be conducted through offline.

 (iv) Examination of all degree courses under MZU should be   conducted online, if conduct of physical class is not permitted by  the state government.

****2.3.2022:** Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP on behalf of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters handed over monetary assistance amounting to Rs. 3,00,000/- to Pu Lalrinmawia, Finance Secretary, Thangram Indigeneous People Movement at a function held on 2.3.2022@ 2:00 p.m. at MZP Office, Treasury Square, Aizawl.**

**3.3.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters is set to observe 'Zoram Ni' (Zoram's Day) on 5.3.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. at Hyve Aizawl City Hall to commemorate the aerial bombing of Aizawl the same day in 1966. Pu Lalruatkima, Minister has consented to grace the function as Chief Guest.

**7.3.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters observed Zoram Ni (Zoram's Day) on 5.3.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. at Hyve Aizawl City Hall to commemorate the aerial bombing of Aizawl the same day in 1966. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function and Pu Lalruatkima, Minister graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP stated that some political parties have reportedly took action for putting Mizoram under President's Rule and expressed their objection of the same.

**10.3.2022**

(a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a function on 10.3.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office to commemorate the sufferings of innocent students on 10.3.2018 due to border dispute. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the function and 17 (seventeen) members attended. During the function, it was highlighted that Zophai incident, which occurred on 10.3.2018, led the Indian government became aware about the disputed area and gave awareness to the general public about the inter-state border dispute. It expressed their desire for immediate settlement of the border dispute. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Vice President of India on 10.3.2022 with a request for immediate repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA).

****11.3.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters called a Press Conference on 11.3.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office under the guidance of Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP, and 15 (fifteen) persons including 5 (five) media persons attended. A Press Statement was issued which stated that MZP is taking necessary steps to sponsor 3 (three) Mizo Central Service aspirants to attend coaching at Vajiram &amp; Ravi Coaching Centre, New Delhi. It also stated that in this connection, application forms can be submitted on or before 26.3.2022, and Screening Test and Personal Interview are scheduled to be held on 2.4.2022 and 8.4.2022 respectively.**

****15.3.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held Executive Committee on 15.3.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting decided to organize ZOFEST, 2022 within this year and accordingly constituted Organizing Committee under the Chairmanship of President MZP. It also expressed gratitude for approval of Mizo Language Development Board Act in the recently concluded Mizoram Assembly Session and at the same time, intends to closely monitor its implementation. The meeting further decided to organize MZP Inter College Cultural Dance Competition w.e.f 8.4.2022 and MZP Inter College Debate Competition w.e.f. 29.3.2022.**

****29.3.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.3.2022 stated that Inter College Debate Competition, 2022 organized by MZP in collaboration with Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC) was held today at Chanmari YMA Hall, and Pu Lalrinenga Sailo, Mayor AMC graced the function as Chief Guest. It also stated that K. Vanlalneihpuia, Govt. Mizoram Law College bagged the First position; Beirapatha Khailo, Govt. Hrangbana College secured Second position and Lalparmawii, Govt. J. Thankima College, the Third position. It further stated that 13 (thirteen) colleges within the state participated in the competition.**

****7.4.2022 :**Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 7.4.2022 which highlighted the visit of Zophai Bairabi and Phainuam-Buarchep yesterday by leaders of MZP. It considered Assam Government to have violated the status quo by constructing a Bailey bridge near Assam Duty Post within the disputed area and strongly condemned Assam Government for the same. At the same time, it urged Mizoram authority to resume construction of the unfinished Bridge at Zophai, Bairabi. It further stated that leaders of MZP led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President, MZP met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram at the latter's Office Chamber today and offered various suggestions for conservation of the State border, and in this regard, the Chief Minister assured to look into the matter.**

****12.4.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) also issued a Press Release on a similar issue the same evening which expressed their opposition of the above mentioned proposal. It also stated that if Hindi is made compulsory, it will be detrimental to indigenous languages and as such, they intend to take necessary action so as to continue making Hindi as optional subject. It considered the said action as an attempt to make Hindu Nation and to assimilate the indigenous people. It urged the authority to immediately revoke the stated proposal and further expressed its resolve to continue to support the action taken in this regard by NESO.**

****13.4.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a programme in the name of the two students selected to undergo MZP-sponsored UPSC coaching, viz. Beihrochu Hralochho S/o HC Beithy of Chheihhlu, Siaha District and Lalrinpuia S/o Zoramliana of Chite Veng, Aizawl on 13.4.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function and 30 (thirty) members attended. During the function, Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP delivered a speech, and Pu Lalhruaitluanga Chawngte, Adviser MZP and Dr. Lalthanzami delivered words of encouragement to the two students. The two selected candidates will attend coaching at Vajiram &amp; Ravi Coaching Centre, New Delhi w.e.f. 15.4.2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

****18.4.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi in its Press Release issued on 14.4.2022 expressed disappointment over non fulfilment of their prayer to fill up the post of teachers of various important subjects at Govt. High School Bairabi till date, viz., Mathematics, Science, Mizo and English. It also stated that MZP Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi OB and Adviser Meeting held on 12.4.2022 once again requested the State government to fill up the above mentioned vacant teacher posts before 16.4.2022. It further stated their intention to organize agitation, if the same is not fulfilled within the stipulated time.**

 Information received stated that in connection with the above, 2 (two) teachers viz. C. Laldingliana S/o C. Rochungnunga (L) of Bairabi North and Rosangpuia Pachau S/o PC Lathankima of New Diakkawn, Kolasib have been recruited at the initiative of Pu K. Lalrinliana, Minister &amp; constituency MLA and Pu Lalchhandama Ralte, Education Minister for the said school. Such being the case, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi has cancelled their intended agitation. A Press Release in this regard was issued on 15.4.2022. Input received stated that the above mentioned newly recruited teachers submitted their joining report on 18.4.2022.

****25.4.2022 :** (a) 6 (six) leaders ofMizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President, MZP met Pu Lalchhandama, Education Minister at the latter's Office Chamber on 25.4.2022. During the meeting, leaders of MZP requested the Minister to make arrangement for students of Myanmar refugees (who are taking shelter within the state) to continue their studies in schools/institutions within the state. The Minister stated that there would not be any difficulties in continuing their studies within the State by Myanmar refugees who are possessing proper documents. Later the same evening, leaders of MZP also met authorities of MBSE in connection with proper and fair preparation of result of the recently concluded HSLC and HSSLC Examinations. MBSE authorities informed them that necessary actions are being taken for proper and fair preparation of the above stated exams results. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters observed 'World Book Day' on 23.4.2022 @ 12:00 noon at MZP General Headquarters Office. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President, MZP presided the function and Pu L. Thangmawia, MLA &amp; Vice Chairman, HRD Board graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu L. Thangmawia stressed the importance of reading books for acquiring more knowledge. He also stated that reading books could be useful for preservation and development of Mizo language. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****27.4.2022 :** MZP Headquarters Lunglei Executive Emergency Meeting held on 27.4.2022 decided to organize Sit-in Demonstration in front of DC, Lunglei Office tomorrow, i.e., 28.4.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. in protest against transfer out of MCS officers from Lunglei amidst existing demand for posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei.**

****28.4.2022:**  (a) MZP Headquarters, Lunglei organized sit-in demonstration in front of DC, Office Lunglei on 28.4.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. in demand of posting of additional MCS officers in Lunglei and around 40 (forty) protesters were present. Pu Albert Lalnunpuia, Vice President, MZP Headquarters Lunglei presided the sit-in demonstration and Pu B. Lalchhanhima, Secretary, MZP Headquarters Lunglei gave a report on shortages of MCS officers presently posted in Lunglei. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President, MZP Headquarters Lunglei stated that severe necessary action will be taken, if their demand is not met by the State government. The protesters displayed placards highlighting the needs of more MCS officers in Lunglei and they dispersed under peaceful atmosphere @ 11:35 a.m.**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters Tlabung in its Press Release issued on 28.4.2022 stated that leaders of MZP Sub-Headquarters proceeded Malsury village in connection with alleged disregard of Missionaries by Shri. Jyotin Chakma, Young Chakma Association (YCA) President, Malsury regarding missing of Malsury KTP Branch signboard on 8.4.2022. It also stated that after conducting thorough enquiry about the above mentioned incident, they requested Zonal YCA and Central YCA to remove President YCA Malsury from his post, and subsequently removed Shri. Jyotin Chakma from President YCA Malsury.

****29.4.2022:** MZP Headquarters, Lunglei again organized picketing of DC, Office Lunglei on 29.4.2022 @ 8:30 a.m. in demand of posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei and around 25 (twenty five) protesters led by Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President, MZP Headquarters, Lunglei participated in the picketing. In this connection, Pu K. Lalrohlua MCS, Addl. DC, Lunglei held a meeting with leaders of MZP Headquarters Lunglei and requested them to call off their ongoing picketing. The protesters dispersed under peaceful atmosphere on the same evening @ 4:30 p.m. Input received stated that leaders of MZP intend to continue their protest until their demand is fulfilled by the state government.**

****2.5.2022 :** MZP Headquarters Lunglei continued picketing of DC, Office Lunglei today, i.e., 2.5.2022 @ 7:30 a.m. in demand for posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei and around 15 (fifteen) protesters led by Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President MZP Headquarters Lunglei participated in the picketing.**

 In this connection, Pu Kulothungan, DC Lunglei held a meeting on 2.5.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at SP, Lunglei Office. The meeting was attended by Pu Rex Zarzoliana Vanchhawng, SP, Lunglei; Pu LH. Rothanga, Principal, Govt. Lunglei College; Dr. J. Zorema, Principal, Govt JB College; Pu Albert Lalnunpuia, Vice President, MZP Headquarters Lunglei and Pu B. Lalchhanhima, Secretary, MZP Headquarters Lunglei, representative of Lunglei Sub-Headquarters YMA and concerned officials attended the meeting. During the meeting, DC Lunglei requested leaders of MZP to call off their picketing, but the same could not bear fruitful result.

 After the meeting, Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister held a meetingon the same afternoon @ 1:00 p.m. at his residence, Bazar veng, Lunglei, and it was attended by Pu Lawmawma Tochhawng MLA &amp; HPC Vice Chairman Lunglei; Pu Albert Lalnunpuia, Vice President MZP Headquarters Lunglei and Pu Johan Lalhmangaihzuala, Treasurer, MZP Headquarters Lunglei. Input received stated that the Minister informed leaders of MZP Lunglei that their request would be considered in a meeting under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister of Mizoram of the same day @ 2:00 p.m.

 The protesters dispersed in the evening @ 5:00 p.m. without any untoward incident.

****4.5.2022:**Mizo Zirlai Pawl(MZP) Sub-Headquarters held Emergency Meeting on the evening of 2.5.2022 @5:30p.m. at MZI Office, Venglai Lunglei in connection with their ongoing picketing in demand for posting of more MCS officers in Lunglei. Pu Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President MZP Lunglei presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting decided to instantly call off their ongoing picketing as arrangement has been made by the state government for posting of 3 (three) additional MCS officers so as to meet shortages of MCS officers in Lunglei as per their demand. However, they intend to closely monitor progress of the posting order and take further action as deemed necessary. A Press Release in this regard was issued the same evening.**

**10.5.2022 :** Young Lai Association (YLA) Vathuampui Sub-Headquarters, Lawngtlai District submitted a written memorandum to the President, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters on 9.5.2022 wherein it stated that some persons who claimed to be members of MZP, Aizawl had tried to collect donation from non-Mizos residing within Vaseikai village area on 7.5.2022. It stated that even though they were instructed by YLA Vaseikai Branch and the Police not to engage in such activity, they had forcefully collected donation amounting to Rs. 60,000 on 8.5.2022. In this connection, it expressed regret and urged MZP General Headquarters to find out the person(s) responsible and to take necessary and severe action against them. It further urged for taking necessary action so that such incident does not recur in future.

 Information received in this connection stated that 7 (seven) persons who claimed to be members of MZP collected donation from 7 (seven) non-Mizos' stores/shops from Vaseikai village (Rs. 10,000 each from 5 stores and Rs. 5000 each from 2 stores) amounting to Rs. 60,000/-.

 It is also learnt that 3 (three) leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President, and 4 (four) Lunglei MZP Sub-Headquarters leaders led by Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President, arrived at Chamdur 'P', Lawngtlai district on 7.5.2022 and attended the General Conference of Mizoram Bawm Students Association. They returned to Aizawl on the evening of 9.5.2022.

**17.5.2022 :**

**(a)**Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 17.5.2022 expressed gratitude for proper publication of HLSC Result by MBSE and in this regard, it appreciated all staff of MBSE for their commitment and hard work. It also expressed gratitude for securing top ten position by 14 (fourteen) domicile students. It further congratulated all successful students, and at the same time, encouraged all unsuccessful students to try harder. It also stated that they intend to organize felicitation of Top Ten mizo rank holders on 25.5.2022 at Vanapa Hall.

(b) Information received stated that 3 (three) leaders of MZP led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP intend to proceed to Phuldungsei village, Mamit District on 18.5.2022 in connection with reported Mizoram government intention to set up 3 (three) Brus villages in and around the area.

****18.5.2022 :** 4 (four) leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP visited Pukzing village, Mamit District on 18.5.2022 in connection with a report they received regarding the state government intention to slice out and give some portions of Pukzing village areas to Chakma villages viz. Silsuri, Hnahva, Hruiduk, Bekabeki and Pukzing Vengthar (Bru village). They held a meeting with leaders of Village Council (VC) and YMA Pukzing. During the meeting, leaders of Pukzing village stated that they will not allow any step to be taken for slicing out of their village areas at any cost and any such initiative will be opposed till the very end. They also requested leaders of MZP to render necessary assistance and cooperation in this regard. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.**

**20.5.2022 :** The 54th Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Federal Council Sitting was held on 20.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at MZP Conference Hall, Aizawl. Pu Andrew F.Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZ presided the sitting and around 100 (one hundred) members attended. The Federal Council Sitting passed the following resolutions:

 (i) Necessary action should be taken for conduct of detail study of teachers and students in Government Schools and Colleges across the state.

 (ii) Necessary action should be taken so as to remove difficulties faced by students of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) regarding their Fees and declaration of Results.
 (iii) MZP should take necessary action for proper implementation of the existing Transfer &amp; Posting Rules of Teachers.

 (iv) MZP should take necessary action so as to recruit only competent/qualified teachers by the state government.

 (v) Necessary action should be taken concerning difficulties faced in domestic gas subsidy.

 (vi) MZP should take necessary action for conduct of fair recruitment under state government.

 A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.

****25.5.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized Feliciation Function of Mizo Top-Ten Rank Holders in the High School Leaving Certificate (HSLC) 2022 on 25.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Vanapa Hall. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice president, MZP presided the function and Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP encouraged the youths and students of Mizoram not to pay heed to unnecessary things in social media. He also stated that the said function was organized with an aim to instil healthy competition among the students. He further stated that MZP would oppose the report they received regarding the state government intention to allot Pukzing village land to Chakmas and Brus till the very end. During the function, 14 (fourteen) Mizo HLSC 2022 Top-Ten Rank Holders were felicitated. The function was attended by around 650 (six hundred fifty) persons. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.**

**31.5.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.5.2022 expressed gratitude for publication of HSSLC Result, 2022 by MBSE and expressed gratitude to all staff of MBSE for their commitment and hard work in this regard. It also expressed gratitude for having 82.07 percent overall pass percentage and encouraged all unsuccessful students to try harder.

****6.6.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters Executive Meeting was held on 6.6.2022 @ 12:00 noon at MZP Conference Hall. The meeting was presided by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP and 25 (twenty five) members attended. The meeting discussed the on-going initiative taken to increase the retiring age of government employees to 62 years and urged the state government not to increase the retiring age in view of opening of more job opportunities for the youths. The meeting also expressed regret and viewed seriously the selection of 3 (three) non-Mizos for appointment under the State government in the recent recruitment conducted by Mizoram Subordinate Services Selection Board (MSSSB). In this connection, it urged the concern authorities to give preferences to sons of the soil and indigenous candidates in all recruitments under the State government. The meeting further decided to observe Remna Ni (Peace Day) on 30th June, 2022 and subsequently constituted a Organizing Committee. The meeting also highlighted that necessary action is being taken to organize Zofest at Lamka (Churachandpur), Manipur within this year. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.**

****20.6.2022 :** Remna Ni (Peace Day) Organizing Committee under MZP held a meeting on 20.6.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at MZP Office. Pu Chinkhanmanga Thomte, Chairman, Remna Ni Organizing Committee chaired the meeting and 14 (fourteen) members attended. The meeting decided to observe Remna Ni on 30.6.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. at Aijal Club, and Speaker, Mizoram Legislative Assembly or Home Minister should be invited to grace the occasion as Chief Guest. The meeting also selected 'Mizoram and Peace' as theme on that day.**

**29.6.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters will observe 'Remna Ni (Peace Day)' on 30.6.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. at Aijal Club, Aizawl. Pu Sanghmingthanga, Treasurer MZP will chair the function and Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister has consented to grace the function as Chief Guest.

**4.7.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 4.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP attended 'The 7th Trennial Conference' organized by Chin Baptist Church (CBC) during 30.6.2022 to 3.7.2022 at Dallas Texas, USA. It also stated that delivering a speech at conference, Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu highlighted necessary assistance extended to Myanmar refugees, who are taking shelter within Mizoram by residents of Mizoram and the assistance given to Myanmar Refugees in collaboration with Women Department, Chin Baptist Church (CBC) USA.
**5.7.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP who has attended 'The 7th Trennial Conference' organized by Chin Baptist Church (CBC) at Dallas Texas, USA, held a meeting with leaders of Mizo Society of America (MSA), Indiana Branch at Indianapolis, USA. It also stated that MSA Indiana Branch appreciated the initiative taken by the MZP for the unity of Mizo tribes and necessary assistance extended to Myanmar refugees. It further stated that MSA Indiana Branch handed over Citation as a token of appreciation.

**7.7.2022 :**Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP who attended 'The 7th Triennial Conference' organized by Chin Baptist Church (CBC) at Dallas Texas, USA held a meeting with leaders of Chin Community of Indiana (CCI) on 6.7.2022. It also stated that leaders of CCA handed over Citation as a token of appreciation to MZP for relief measures taken for Myanmar Refugees. It further stated that they both decided to send delegates to programmes organized in future by CCI and MZP as a way of building friendship and cooperation.

**22.7.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters Executive Meeting was held on 22.7.2022 @ 12:00 noon at MZP Conference Hall. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting inter-alia decided the following:

 (i) To oppose the reported service extension of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl.  Registrar, Cooperative Society, who retired in May, 2022 till the very  end.

 (ii) Expressed their support to the action taken by MZP Sub-Headquarters,  West Lungdar in connection with West Lungdar Middle School's issues.

 (iii) To take necessary action for regularisation of 23 (twenty three)   Government Higher Secondary School lecturers, who were recruited in  2014 through MPSC.

 (iv) To organize felicitation function of successful students' union leaders,  ethnic based students' leaders in the recently declared under graduate  result under Mizoram University.

 A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****25.7.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters Extended OB Meeting was held on 25.7.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office, Treasury Square. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 10 (ten) members attended. The meeting decided to organize Charity Concert for Myanmar Refugees, who are taking shelter within the state, and in this connection, a Joint Meeting will be held with Mizo Zaimi Insuihkhawm Pawl (MZI) and People United in Music with a Purpose (PUMP) on 26.7.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at MZP Office. It also decided to organize Felicitation Function for successful College Students' Union Leaders and ethnic based students' leaders in the recently declared UG Result under Mizoram University on 4.8.2022 at BS Farm, Falkland.**

(b) Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister Cooperation Department held a meeting with 6 (six) leaders of MZP led by Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP at his office chamber on 25.7.2022 @ 2:30 p.m in connection with MZP opposition for re-engagement of Addl. Registrar, Co-operation Department. During the meeting, the Minister requested leaders of MZP to bear with them regarding re-engagement of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar, Co-operation Department. However, information received stated that leaders of MZP informed the Minister regarding their stand on re-engagement of pensioners and urged the Minister to cancel the re-engagement order. It is reported that Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar, Co-operation Department will join office w.e.f. 1.8.2022 and input received stated that MZP intends to resort to mass procession or picketing of the said office in protest of re-engagement of the stated officer, if the said order is not cancelled.

**26.7.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Headquarters Champhai submitted a written FIR at Champhai PS on 25.7.2022 which stated various problems faced by students of NIOS Zokhawpui Higher Secondary Open School, Champhai have been reported since 2019 as follow :-

 (i) Students were denied to sit in the examination even after paying  all the required fees.

 (ii) The enrolment number and reference number given to students  by the school did not match with the names of the students.

 (iii) NIOS declared result without conducting offline exam during   lockdown, and most of the students in the said exam were  declared failed. However, the school authority refused to issue  their mark sheets.

 In connection with the above mentioned issues, they requested to take necessary legal action against Pu Rosangliana, Principal of the said school and his daughter Lalhruaizeli and any other involved persons. Accordingly, Champhai PS registered Case vide C/No 97/22 Dt. 25.7.2022 u/s 419/420/468/34 IPC.

****26.07.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a meeting with leaders of People United in Music with a Purpose (PUMP) and Mizo Zaimi Insuihkhawm (MZI) on 26.07.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at MZP Office, Treasury Square. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the meeting and 20 (twenty) members including representatives of PUMP and MZI attended. The meeting decided to organize Charity Concert for Myanmar Refugees who are taking shelter within the state on 30.07.2020, 6.08.2022 and 13.08.2022 at various locations viz. Thuampui, Zarkawt, Chanmari, Vanapa Hall, Kulikawn, Sikulpuikawn, Khatla kawn and Aizawl Tennis Court.**

****29.7.2022 :** A meeting was held between Office Bearers of MZP General Headquarters and leaders of Mizoram State Cooperation Service Association (MSCSA) on 29.7.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. at MZP Office, concerning MZP's opposition against service extension of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar, Cooperative Society. MSCSA leaders explained the need for service extension of the said Pu Lalrinsanga and his indispensability and appealed them not to resort to picketing to prevent him from attending his office on Monday, i.e., 1.8.2022. The meeting yields no conclusive outcome.**

 After the meeting, MZP convened its Emergency Meeting under the chairmanship of Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, MZP President, at 3:30 p.m and 14 (fourteen) members were present. MZP reiterates their opposition to extension of service of any government employees and it requested the government to revoke the said order. As a first step, it decided to burn a copy of service extension Order of Pu Lalrinsanga in front of Vanapa Hall on 1.8.2022 @ 12:00 noon and if their action yields no positive outcome, it will promptly decide its further course of action as deem fit. A Press release in this regard was also issued.

****01.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters burnt a copy of service extension Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) at a function organized in front of Vanapa Hall, Aizawl on 1.8.2022 @ 12:10 p.m. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function and 27(twenty seven) persons attended. Pu Jacob Lalmuanpuia, MZP General Secretary gave a report on the action taken by MZP concerning their opposition to extension of the service of any government employees. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP stated that they strongly condemned the State government for extending the service of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) despite their strong opposition and requested the State government again to cancel the service extension Order of the stated Officer. He also stated that they will resort to picketing to prevent Pu Lalrinsanga from attending office w.e.f., 2.8.2022 @ 8:30 a.m., if the State government fails to fulfil their demand. A Press Release in this regard.**

****02.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organized Picketing in front of the office of Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Babutlang, Aizawl 2.8.2022 @ 8:00 a.m. to prevent Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS) from attending office. Around 30 (thirty) protesters participated and they displayed banner highlighting their opposition to re-employment of any government employees. The picketing was called off the same morning @ 11:00 a.m. as Pu Lalrinsanga availed casual leave.**

 In connection with the above, MZP General Headquarters Emergency Executive Meeting was held today @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu President MZP presided the meeting and 31 (thirty one) members attended. The meeting decided the following:

 (i) To organize picketing to prevent Registrar of Cooperative Societies   (RCS) from attending office on 5.8.2022.

 (ii) To organize picketing to prevent Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister   Cooperation Department from attending office on 8.8.2022.

 A Press Release regarding the above mentioned meeting was issued today.

 In connection with MZP ongoing protest, Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Minister Cooperation held a meeting with 6 (six) leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP today @ 3:00 a.m. at his Office Chamber. During the meeting, the Minister requested leaders of MZP to cancel their ongoing protest and at the same time, leaders of MZP also urged the Minister to cancel re-employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS). The meeting yields no conclusive result.

****4.8.2022 :** (a) Dt. 2.8.2022, information received stated that Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters is intending to organize picketing of the Office of the Registrar, Mizoram Cooperatives Societies on 5.8.2022 as no positive response has been received on their demand for cancellation of Re-employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS).**

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued today, i.e., 4.8.2022 stated that Felicitation Function of successful Students' Union Leaders and Ethnic based Students' Leaders was held on 4.8.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at BS Farm, Aizawl. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function and Pu Lalrinsanga Ralte, Serlui constituency MLA graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalrinsanga Ralte stated that education is the best weapon for protection of the nation, and he also encouraged all the newly passed students to pursue higher studies with a clear purpose. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP also delivered a speech and 69 (sixty nine) persons from College Students' Union, MZP General Headquarters and Ethnic Based Students Leaders who have recently passed their exams were felicitated in the function.

****5.8.2022 :** MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP met Pu C. Lalrinsanga, Cooperation Minister as per the latter's invitation last evening i.e., 4.8.2022 @ 6:30 p.m. at the official Bungalow of the Minister in connection with MZP ongoing demand for cancellation of Re-Employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS). During the meeting, Pu C. Lalrinsanga informed leaders of MZP about the State government's decision for revocation of Re-Employment Order of Pu Lalrinsanga, Addl. Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS). Thereafter, a consultative meeting of MZP OB and Executive Committee Member was held and it decided to cancel their intended picketing of Registrar of Cooperative Societies Office today, i.e., 5.8.2022 in view of the above State government's decision.**

**10.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.8.2022 stated that MZP General Headquarters handed over a good number of Class-1 to Class-10 books and children's bibles for children of Myanmar refugees staying in Zokhawthar and Farkawn in a function held on 9.8.2022 at Zokhawthar YMA Hall, Zokhawthar, Champhai District. Pu Rothanglura, Vice Chairman, Education Working Committee under Hualngoram Peoples Organisation (HPO) presided the function and Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP delivered a speech.

****12.8.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held its Executive Committee Meeting on 12.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at MZP Conference Hall. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 30 (thirty) members attended. The meeting expressed desire for immediate selection of the contractors for renovation of schools under NABARD XXVI (26). It also urged the Education Department to give priority to the needy schools while selecting the renovation works and to closely supervise the construction work. It also decided that various MZP establishments across the State are expected to closely supervise the stated upcoming renovation of school works. The meeting reiterated its stand on re-employment of retired government employees except under exceptional cases and urged the State government not to extend/re-employ retired government servants. The meeting also decided that MZP General Assembly should be held within October, 2022.**

****16.8.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Extended OB Meeting was held on16.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP office. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 12 (twelve) members attended. The meeting decided to organize Sit-in Protest at MZP Conference Hall on 17.8.2022 in pursuance of NESO call for North East State-wide Protest in demand for grant of relief to Myanmar refugees, who are taking shelter within the north-eastern states. It also stated in the meeting that MZP members, NESO Council Members and MZP Executive Committee members are expected to participate in the said Sit-in Protest.**

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District organized picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 16.8.2022 as no positive response has been received in connection with their demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year), both from Lungsen Govt. High School. At the same time, teachers of the said school were allowed to attend the school and 9 (nine) members of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen led by President Lalpekhlua participated in the picketing. It may be mentioned that presently, there are 59 (fifty nine) students (Class IX - 36; Class X - 23) in the stated school.

****17.8.2022 :** Sit-in Protest was organized on 17.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Conference hall under the aegis of MZP General Headquarters in pursuance of NESO call for North East state-wide protest. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP General Headquarters presided the Sit-in protest and Pu Ricky Lalbiakmawia, Finance Secretary NESO highlighted the various reasons of organizing the said protest as follows:**

 (i) Demand for Repeal of AFSPA, 1958.

 (ii) Demand for Repeal of CAA.

 (iii) Immediate settlement of inter-states boundary as well as International   border issues.

 (iv) Adoption of an educational policy for NE region based on the cultural  and history of NE region.

 (v) Establishment of more universities, technical and vocational institutes,  medical and engineering colleges, Research centres. Introduce more  courses to our colleges and universities.

 (vi) Formulation of a comprehensive policy for Economic development of  NE region.

 (vii) Declaration of NE special employment Zone so as to reduce   employment problems in the region.

 (viii) To provide special constitutional status for NE people with rights over  land and natural resources.

 (ix) Creation of a separate time zone for NE region.

 (x) Immediate settlement of refugee issues of Chakma and Hajong of  Arunachal Pradesh.

 (xi) Provision of food and shelter and other welfare amenities to Myanmar  refugees, who are taking shelter within the North-eastern States.

 A Press Release in this regard was issued on 17.8.2022.

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes today, i.e., 17.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School.

 In this connection, a meeting was held on 17.8.2022 at BDO Conference Hall, Lungsen. The meeting was attended by officials of Education Department led by Pi Lallianzuali Bawitlung DEO, Lunglei; 9 (nine) leaders of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen led by Lalpekhlua, President MZP and Headmaster of Lungsen Govt. High School. During the meeting, officials of education department requested leaders of MZP to call off their ongoing picketing and to await appropriate necessary action taken by competent authority. At the same time, leaders of MZP expressed their intention to continue their picketing before fulfilment of their demand by the state government.

**18.8.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a Function on 18.8.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at MZP Conference Hall wherein donation money received for Myanmar refugees during the recent Mobile Charity Concert was handed over for the needy people of Kalay Region, Myanmar. Pu Andrew F Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP presided the function, and Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP and Pu David Z Hmar, President Mizo Zaimi Inzawmkhawm Pawl (MZI) delivered speeches. Donation received amounting to Rs.5,03,534/- for relief assistance to Kalay Region, Myanmar was handed over during the function. The said Mobile Charity Concert was organized two times in collaboration with MZI and NGO United for Democratic Myanmar. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.
(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 18.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School. Information received stated that leaders of MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District intend to take more severe action, if their ongoing agitation bears no positive result.

**19.8.2022 :** (a) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 19.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School.

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi held Emergency Meeting on 19.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Office, Bairabi. Pu C Lalngilneia, President MZP Sub-Headquarters presided the meeting and 4 (four) members attended. The meeting expressed disappointment over issuance of Transfer Order of Pi Lalremruati, Rail Head UPS Hindi Teacher without replacement and decided to resort to road blockade for vehicle carrying essential commodities, if the state government fails to revoke or post her replacement before the end of 24.8.2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

 _It may be mentioned that if the said intended road blockade is organized, it may result in disruption of regular supply of rice to the rest of the state as Rail Station and Godown for bulk storage of rice are located in Bairabi village._

**22.8.2022 :** (a) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 22.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School. In this connection, information received stated that Joint NGO Meeting is scheduled to be held today's evening to discuss their further course of action.

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters West Phaileng Executive Meeting was held on 20.8.2022 @ 8:00 p.m. and the meeting strongly condemned incident of physical assault and threaten with dire consequences of one boy student of Govt. Primary School-III by Pu B. Thanglura, Teacher, West Phaileng Govt. Middle-II, Mamit District under the influence of alcohol. The meeting urged the stated teacher not to take classes anymore and to engage qualified substitute teacher before the end of 10.9.2022. They further decided to take necessary action, in case of failure to comply their decision by the said teacher within the stipulated time. A Press Release in this regard was issued yesterday.

**23.8.2022 :** (a) Information received stated that Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi, Kolasib District cancelled their intention to organize road blockade of vehicles carrying essential commodities w.e.f., 24.8.2022 as the concerned authority revoked the Transfer Order of Rail Head UPS Hindi Teacher Pi Lalremruati.

(b) MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen, Lunglei District continued picketing in front of Lungsen Govt. High School so as to prevent students of the said school from attending classes on 23.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Lalnunpuii Pautu, Science Teacher and J. Lallawmtluanga, Mathematics Teacher (transfer order issued last year) both from Lungsen Govt. High School. A Joint NGOs Meeting is scheduled to be held on 23.8.2022 @ 7:30 p.m. at Lungsen Hmar Veng YMA Hall to discuss their further course of action.
(c) MZP General Headquarters held inauguration function of 'Thu leh Hla Kutpui 2022' on 23.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Vanapa Hall. Dr. K. Beichhua, Social Welfare Minister and Pu Lalchhandama Ralte School Education Minister delivered speeches at the function. In the first session, interactions were held with various authors viz., Revd. Chuauthuama; Pu C Chhuanvawra; Pu Lalhriata and Pu Zirsangkima and during the second session, interactions were held with Pu R Lalrawna; Pu B Lalhriattira and Pu Lalrammawia Ngente. Awardees of MAL Book of the Year were felicitated and the function was attended by students of various schools. It will be resumed tomorrow. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****24.8.2022 :** (a) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi, Kolasib District considered receipt of only verbal report for cancellation of Transfer Order of Rail Head UPS Hindi Teacher Pi Lalremruati from the State government as inappropriate. It considered non-issuance of a formal cancellation of Transfer Order of the said teacher till date as disregard of residents of Bairabi village, Kolasib District. It reiterated that they will not allow issue of release order in respect of the said teacher from the school if the State government fails to cancel transfer order or post her replacement. In this connection, they decided to await the State government till 26.8.2022 and if no positive response is received within the stipulated time, they intend to organize road blockade of NH-154 for vehicle carrying essential commodities. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

(b) Lungsen All NGOs Meeting was held on 23.8.2022 @ 7:30 p.m. at Lungsen Branch YMA Hall. Pu Lalpekhlua Punte, President MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen presided the meeting and 27 (twenty seven) members from YMA, MHIP and MUP attended the meeting. The meeting discussed the ongoing picketing of Lungsen Govt. High School organized by MZP Sub-Headquarters Lungsen in demand for cancellation of Transfer order of Science and Mathematics Teachers from the said school. The meeting constituted an NGO Co-ordination Committee under the chairmanship of Pu Lalpekhlua Punte so as to take more severe action on their demands, in case the situation demands. It decided not to attend a meeting to be convened today by DC, Lunglei in connection with their ongoing picketing due to transportation issues.

 Picketing of all schools within Lungsen village was continued on 24.8.2022. It may be mentioned that there are 2 (two) High Schools, 3 (three) Middle Schools including 1 (one) private school and 4 (four) Primary Schools including 1 (one) private school in Lungsen village.
 (c) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.8.2022 stated that 'Thu leh Hla Kutpui' organized by MZP General Headquarters was resumed today. It also stated that in the first session, a fruitful interaction with various authors viz. Pi B. Vanlalzari; Pu C. Lalnunchanga; Prof. RL. Thanmawia and Pu B. Lalthangliana was held and Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister graced the session as Chief Guest. It further stated MAL Book of the Year awardees of 1989 to 2021 were felicitated in the second session and Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister graced the session as Chief Guest.

****25.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools within Lungsen village on 25.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they decided to await the State government till 26.8.2022, and if the latter fails to take positive action on their demands within the stipulated time, it will take more severe measures including Total Bandh.**

**26.8.2022 :** (a) NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools within Lungsen village on 26.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they intend to convene NGO Co-ordination Committee Meeting this evening to discuss their further course of action.

(b) Information received stated that MZP Sub-Headquarters, Bairabi cancelled their intention to organize road blockade of NH-154 for vehicle carrying essential commodities following the assurance given by Pu K. Lalrinliana, Minister &amp; constituency MLA for taking necessary action for immediate issuance of cancellation of Transfer Order of Pi Lalremruati, Teacher, Govt. Rail Head UPS, Bairabi.

****29.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools and Govt. Offices within Lungsen village on 29.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Science and Mathematics Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. Information received stated that they intend to resort to Total Bandh w.e.f., 30.8.2022, if no positive response has been received on their demand from the State government before the end of 29.8.2022.**

****30.8.2022 :** NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen continued picketing of all schools and Govt. Offices within Lungsen village on 30.8.2022 in demand for cancellation of Transfer Order of Science and Mathematics Teachers at Govt. Lungsen High School. In this connection, Pu C. Lalthanzama, Addl. Director, School Education Department held a meeting with leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen today @ 10:00 a.m. at Lungsen Hmarveng YMA Hall. During the meeting, Pu C. Lalthanzama requested leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen to understand shortages of teachers under School Education Department and to call off their agitation. At the same time, leaders of NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen demanded assurance from the State government on their demand before calling off their agitation. Information received stated that NGO Co-ordination Committee Lungsen intends to convene a meeting this evening to discuss their course of action.**

**31.8.2022 :** (a) NGO Coordination Committee, Lungsen held a meeting in the evening of 30.8.2022 @ 7:30 p.m. to review the outcome of a meeting held the same day with Pu C. Lalthanzama, Addl. Director, School Education Department, in connection with their ongoing picketing. The meeting discussed the written assurance given by Pu C. Lalthanzama to take possible necessary action on their demand and it considered the same as reliable and decided to immediately call off their ongoing picketing of all schools and Govt. offices within Lungsen village.

(b) Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) Extended OB Meeting was held on 31.8.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at MZP Office, Treasury Square. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 9 (nine) members attended. The meeting decided to organize awareness programme on 2.9.2022 to discourage students from marrying non-Mizos.

**2.9.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.9.2022 stated that MZP General Headquarters held an awareness function to discourage mizo students from marrying a non-Mizo at various schools within Aizawl city. It also stated that MZP organized the same function every year on the same day and started organizing the said function on 2.9.2015. It further stated that the function was appreciated by students and teachers. It also stated that during the function, various adverse impacts of marrying non-Mizos by mizo youths were highlighted.

****5.9.2022 :** (a) MZP Headquarters Hnahthial held Executive Committee meeting on the evening of 4.9.2022 @ 3:30 p.m. at MZP Office, Hnahthial. Pu K. Lalzarzova, President MZP Headquarters Hnahthial presided the meeting and 8 (eight) members attended. The meeting decided to take necessary action in connection with transfer of Pi Acey Lalremhriai, English Lecturer, Govt. Hnahthial Higher Secondary School without replacement and in this regard, they intend to meet Education Minister and concern authorities of School Education Department while attending MZP Federal Council at Aizawl.**

(b) MZP General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.9.2022 expressed warm greetings to all the teachers on the occasion of Teacher's Day. It also stated that MZP General Headquarters displayed placards depicting greetings to teachers were displayed at various locations in Aizawl city. It further stated that Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP attended Teacher's Day celebration organized by St. Anthony Higher Secondary School at Vanapa Hall and Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President also attended Teacher's Day celebration organized by MZP Sub-Headquarters Ratu.

**13.9.2022 :** MZP General Headquarters held its Executive Meeting on 13.9.2022 @12:00 noon at MZP Pisa Pui, Treasury Square, Aizawl. The meeting was presided over by their president, Lalnunmawia Pautu and 25 (twenty five) members were present. The meeting decided to hold MZP Assembly at Darzo, Hnahthial District during 25th-27th October, 2022. And they also decided to convene MZP Federal Council Sitting at Tourist Complex, Beraw Tlang, Aizawl on 16.9.2022. And they proposed the following as agenda for the Council Sitting:

 (a) Enhancement of Student's Union Fund in Government Colleges.

 (b) Conduct verification of road construction projects under NHIDCL.

 (c) To initiate for filling up of vacant posts under Government of Mizoram.

 (d) To take measure for timely release of state matching share on Post  Matric Scholarship by the State Government.

 (e) To take measures for implementation of Mizo Language proficiency test  in recruitment of Government job.

 (f) To take remedial measures on the problems being faced by plaintiff of  insurances in Mizoram.

 (g) To take initiative for allotment of buses to Government colleges and   timely completion of construction works in colleges under RUSA.

****15.9.2022 :** MZP Headquarters, Lunglei held its Executive Meeting on 14.9.2022 at MZP Office, Lunglei. The meeting decided to undertake awareness programme on drugs abuse for students in view of reported recent surging of new drugs users among the youths. It also decided to take necessary action against the alleged increase of Chakma population in Lunglei town and to conduct checking of Hotels owned by Chakmas in Lunglei town at their convenient time.**

**16.9.2022 :** The 55th Federal Council Sitting of MZP was held on 16.9.2022 at MZP Conference Hall, Aizawl. Andrew F Lalramnghaka, Vice President, MZP presided over the Council Sitting and House Leader Lalnunmawia Pautu, MZP General Headquarters President addressed the sitting. As many as 121 (one hundred twenty one) members attended. The Federal Council Sitting approved the following agenda for MZP Assembly scheduled to be held at Darzo during 25th-27th October, 2022:

 (a) Revision of the fee structure of government's institutions.

 (b) To take measures for timely release of state matching share on Post  Matric Scholarship by the State Government.

 (c) To take initiative for allotment of buses to Government colleges.

 (d) To take initiative for timely completion of construction works in  colleges under RUSA.

 (e) To conduct verification of road construction projects under NHIDCL.

 (f) To take measures for the implementation of Mizo Language proficiency  test in recruitment of Government job.

 (g) To take remedial measures on the problems being faced by claimant of  insurances under insurance companies in Mizoram.

**22.9.2022 :** Information received stated that in pursuance of the decision of the 55th MZP Federal Council Sitting, 3 (three) leaders of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) led by Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP will be proceeding to Kawlkulh and Champhai in the evening of 22.9.2022 to conduct spot visit of the ongoing road construction work, which is undertaken by NHIDCL.

****26.9.2022 :** Tuipuiral Zirlai Pawl (TZP) held a Press Conference on 26.9.2022 @12:00 Noon at Aizawl Press Club. Pu Zorammawia, President, TZP led the Press Conference and 20 (twenty) persons including 14 (fourteen) media persons attended. During the press conference, a press note was issued, wherein they highlighted alleged irregularities in execution of a project 'Samthang Zophulpui Nature Park, Mizoram'. The project fund was received from Ministry of DONER under 'Schemes of North Eastern Council'. It also stated that a total of Rs.359.21 lakhs was received for the said project, and the project aims to provide sustainable livelihood for residents of Samthang and its surrounding villages and develop Tourism within the state. It further stated that leaders of TZP visited the site on 22.4.2022 and 29-30.7.2022 and expressed disappointment over sub-standard execution of the project. In this connection, information was sought through RTI to DC Office, Champhai and Planning &amp; Programme Implementation Department and various irregularities were found out by comparing information received from RTI and actual execution of the work. As per RTI information, the project completion certificate was issued on 25.2.2022 and during that time, there are various pending works. It also stated that DC, Champhai was the implementing agency of Samthang Zophulpui Nature Park, Mizoram' and accused as responsible for occurrence of various irregularities and highlighted the various irregularities in implementation of the project.**

 In connection with the above, today's afternoon @ 1:30 pm, leader of Tuipuiral Zirlai Pawl (TZP) submitted a written complaint to Chairman, Mizoram Lokayukta with a request to initiate probe on the alleged irregularities on execution of the said project.

**3.10.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.10.2022 expressed disappointment over construction of 2 (two) makeshift camps at Zophai, Bairabi within the enforcement of Status Quo area. It also stated that upon learning the said activities, leaders of MZP proceeded to the area and insisted Assam government to dismantle the said makeshift camps. Accordingly, Assam dismantled the two makeshift camps today @ 12:30 pm. It also stated that they considered engaging in any activities within the disputed area by Assam as disregard of the Mizoram government and residents of Mizoram. It further urged Mizoram government to immediately take responsive action, in case such a situation arises in future. It expressed gratitude to Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister for taking prompt action and deployment of force at the area. It also appreciated the initiative taken by leaders of Bairabi village, and urged the Mizoram government to closely supervise any initiative taken by Assam government within the disputed border.

**3.10.2022 :** Information received stated that on the evening of Dt. 2.10.2022, labourers from Assam reportedly working under Assam Police Housing Corporation had constructed 2 (two) Makeshift Camps using bamboo at the disputed Zophai border area adjacent to Pu Ch.Chhunga (L) paddy field near the National Highway NH-154, which is about 2 kms from Bairabi border Police Check Gate towards Assam side.

 Upon learning the said activities, 12 (twelve) leaders of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters led by Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP proceeded to Bairabi the same evening. In this connection, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters issued a Press Release on the evening of Dt. 2.10.2022 wherein it strongly condemned construction of the said makeshift camps amidst necessary action being taken by both the states viz. Mizoram and Assam for solving the border issues. It also informed all members of MZP to be ready for community work to dismantle the said makeshift camps. It further urged Mizoram government to take prompt action and also insisted Assam government to immediately dismantle the said makeshift camp. It further stated that if the makeshift camp is not immediately dismantled, MZP intends to organize 'Zo-Hnam Hnatlang' (Mass Community Work), to dismantle the said makeshift camp.

__In connection with the above incident, Bairabi Joint Village Council also convened a meeting this morning, i.e. 3.10.2022 @7:30 am at Bairabi South VC Office. Pu R. Lalrinawma, Chairman, Bairabi Joint VC chaired the meeting and around 15 (fifteen) members attended. The meeting deliberated upon action plan against construction of makeshift camp by Assam and they decided to convene Emergency Joint Meeting with NGOs.

 Consequence upon the decision of Bairabi Joint Village Council meeting, Emergency Joint Meeting was convened today @10:00 am at Bairabi North Village Council Bhavan. As many as 20 leaders from Bairabi North &amp; South Branch YMAs, MZP and MSU Sub-Headquarters Bairabi, MUP and MHIP Branches of Bairabi North &amp; South, Joint YMA and Zampuimanga Group YMA attended the meeting. Before commencement of the meeting, Pu K.Lalrinliana, Hon'ble Minister; DC, Kolasib; SP, Kolasib and DFO, Kolasib met the Joint VCs and NGOs leaders and gave a report on the action taken by the state Government concerning the ongoing issue. The Joint Meeting passed the following resolutions:

 i) Lauded the initiative taken by the Government of Mizoram for the  dismantle of the makeshift camp by Assam Government.

 ii) The Government of Mizoram should construct MAP Camp at   Mualkhang Tlang, adjacent to Assam Police Camp.

 iii) The Government of Mizoram should immediately implement the  ongoing development works along the inter-state border with Assam.

 iv) Joint Village Councils and All NGOs must work in coordination in  border issues and restrict outsiders from involvement in Bairabi border  issues without the consent of Joint VCs and All NGOs.

 v) Urged Mizoram Police/Force to act promptly before the civilian  response to any border dispute incident.

 Information received indicated that people from Assam had fully dismantled the said makeshift camps @ 11:00 am and removed the construction materials.

****06.10.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.10.2022 stated that leaders of MZP General Headquarters had met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister the same day at his office chamber in connection with inter-state border issues, sub-standard execution of road construction work by NHIDCL and Zofest, 2022. It also stated that during the meeting discussion was made on construction of 2(two) makeshift camps by Assam at Zophai, which is within Status Quo area, and requested the Chief Minister to strongly respond any such activities. In this regard, the Chief Minister assured to take necessary action. It also stated that leaders of MZP requested the Chief Minister to take necessary action regarding the action being taken by Thangram Indigenous Peoples Movement (TIPM) for amalgamation of 180 Sq. Miles Thangram areas with Mizoram. In this connection, the Chief Minister allegedly stated that necessary action has been taken by the state government.**

****10.10.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held Executiive Meeting today, i.e., 10.10.2022 @11:00 am at MZP Office, Treasury Square. Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP presided the meeting and 27 (twenty seven) members attended. The meeting decided the following: **
(i) To conduct awareness programme on HIV and cleanliness among the students.

(ii) To take necessary action to hike the rate of ILP fees.

(iii) Entrusted OBs of MZP for eradication of errors in Certificate issued by MBSE.

(iv) To conduct cleanliness drive at Darzo Village on 16.10.2022.

****12.10.2022:** On 12.10.2022, Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) has inaugurated Computer Centre (NIELIT Study Centre) at MZP Office. Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, MZP Vice President presided the function and Pu Jacob Lalmuanpuia MZP General Secretary gave report on the opening of the Computer Centre. Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Chief Guest; Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP; Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Department Chief Informatics Officer Dr. Lalthlamuana and NIELIT Scientist (C) Vanlalhmangaiha Khiangte delivered speeches at the inaugural function. Leaders of MZP reported that 50 (fifty) students are presently pursuing 3 (three) months Course on Computer Concept (CCC) at MZP Computer Centre.**

****14.10.2022 :** 5 (five) leaders of All Class Representatives &amp; Trainees Union, who have not yet received scholarship met Pu Vanlalchhuanga, Finance Commissioner at the latter's office chamber on 14.10.2022 @ 1:53 p.m. in connection with alleged delay in release of scholarship fund by the state government. During the meeting, Finance Commissioner apprised leaders of All Class Representatives &amp; Trainees Union about exact condition of scholarship and stated that scholarship file will be endorsed to the Chief Minister today's evening for his approval. He also stated that if the same is approved, distribution of scholarship may be done during next week. Such being the case, leaders of All Class Representatives &amp; Trainees Union decided to await the state government till the end of next week, and if scholarship is not distributed within the stipulated time, they will discuss their further course of action.**

 In connection with delay in distribution of scholarship, All Class Representatives &amp; Trainees Union issued a Joint Notification on Dt. 13.10.2022 wherein they stated that the Central Government had sanctioned scholarship fund on 4.10.2022 and the same has not been disbursed by the state government to Mizoram Scholarship Board till today. It also stated that such being the case, they informed all members to gather in front of Finance Office, MINECO and Directorate of Higher &amp; Technical Education Department, Aizawl today @ 1:00 p.m. It also stated that if the scholarship fund is not disbursed on the same day i.e., 14.10.2022, they will resort to protest/demonstration on 17.10.2022. In this connection, 10 (ten) leaders of All Class Representatives &amp; Trainees Union gathered at the courtyard of New Secretariat Building, MINECO and met the Finance Commissioner.

****21.10.2022:** MZP General Headquarters is scheduled to hold its 66th General Assembly during 25th-27th October, 2022 at Darzo, Hnahthial District. Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Hon'ble Minister, H&amp;TE, etc.; Pu K. Lalrinliana, Hon'ble Minister of State, FCS&amp;CA, etc. and Pu Lalchhandama Ralte, Hon'ble Minister of State, RD, etc. are expected to attend the Assembly as Chief Guests and Pu R. Lalremsanga, DC, Hnahthial District is also expected to attend the Assembly. The assembly will deliberate upon the following agenda :**

 i) To initiate for revision of fee structure in Govt. Institutions and Colleges  and utilize it for strengthening the education system.

 ii) To initiate for timely release of State Matching Share (SMS) in Post   Matric Scholarship by the State Government.

 iii) To initiate for provision of buses to Government colleges by the state   Government.

 iv) To initiate for timely completion of the ongoing constructions/repairing  works of colleges under RUSA.

 v) To conduct inspection on various ongoing road constructions under   NHIDCL and to ensure that Guidelines have been followed by the  contractors.

 vi) To initiate for the introduction of Mizo language proficiency test upto  Middle School standard in recruitment of all government jobs.

 vii) To take measures for the settlement of problems faced by customers   from Insurance Companies operating in Mizoram.

**27.10.2022:** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) 66th General Assembly has been conducted at Liandala Run, Darzo, Hnahthial District since 25th October, 2022. At the concluding day, Business Session was held on 27.10.2022 @ 7:30 a.m. Govt. PS-I Darzo under the chairmanship of Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP and 179 (one hundred seventy nine) delegates attended. The Business Session passed the following agendas:

 (i) MZP must take initiative for revision of fee structure in Govt.   Institutions and Colleges and utilize it for strengthening the education  system.

 (ii) To initiate for timely release of State Matching Share (SMS) in Post   Matric Scholarship by the State Government.

 (iii) The state government should take necessary action for allotment of   Buses to needy colleges.

 (iv) Necessary action should be taken for timely completion of renovation  work of various colleges under RUSA.

 (v) Necessary verification should be conducted for proper execution of road  construction work being undertaken by NHIDCL.
 (vi) Action be taken for the introduction of Mizo language proficiency test  upto Middle School standard in recruitment of all government jobs.

 (vii) Necessary action should be taken for immediate settlement of problems  faced by insurance claimants within the state.

 (viii) To take measures for the settlement of problems faced by customers   from Insurance Companies operating in Mizoram.

****3.11.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued yesterday on 2.11.2022 stated that leaders of MZP General Headquarters met Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister at his office chamber yesterday. During the meeting, discussion was held regarding alleged occurrence of incident of ILP checking of Zo-ethnic tribes from other states at Lengpui Airport and other ILP Check Posts. In this connection, leaders of MZP expressed their disappointment as MZP prioritized integration of various Zo-ethnic tribes. It further considered occurrence of the said incident as due to negligence of the staff and Home Department. The Press Release also stated that the Hon'ble Home Minister assured to take possible necessary action.**
**4.11.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held Executive Meeting on 4.11.2022 at MZP Conference Hall. The meeting expressed concern over appearance of non-Mizo names in the recruitment exam conducted by Mizoram Public Service Commission and Mizoram Subordinate Services Selection Board (MSSSB) and in this regard, they urged the concerned authorities to give preference to the eligible indigenous candidates. The meeting also appoint various Secretaries under MZP General Headquarters. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****14.11.2022 :** Leaders of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a meeting with officials of Balaji and Dhariwal Builtech Limited on 14.11.2022 @2:00 p.m. at MZP Office in connection with a complaint received for construction of road under NHIDCL. During the meeting, discussion was made on the ongoing road construction of Khawzawl to Champhai and Dulte to Kawlkulh. Leaders of MZP expressed concern about alleged violation of environmental laws while executing road construction work and sub-standard construction of road. They also requested all contractors under NHIDCL to abide all environmental laws and to use only quality construction materials. Authorities of Balaji and Dhariwal Builtech also stated that the existing environmental laws are being followed to the possible extend while executing the road construction work and highlighted the difficulties being faced in transportation of good quality materials for construction of road. In this regard, leaders of MZP stated that they will take necessary action, if the road construction companies are found using sub-standard materials for construction of road and violating the environmental laws. They also mentioned that spot verification of road construction works had already been conducted 2 (two) times and they intend to do the same before the end of November, 2022. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

**15.11.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.11.2022 expressed their serious concern over the alleged occurrence of huge firing incident at Tamu District, Myanmar on 14.11.2022 between Myanmar Army and PDF due to supply of weapons to Myanmar Army by Indian Government. Due to this incident, 1 (one) PDF had succumbed and 3 (three) persons sustained serious injuries. MZP strongly condemned Government of India for allegedly supplying weapons to Myanmar Army. It also maintained that MZP has been taking initiative for the safety of all Myanmar Refugees, who are taking shelter within Mizoram. It also underlined that MZP had approached Mizoram Government and submitted memorandum to Prime Minister and Ministry of Home Affairs for grant of relief to Myanmar Refugees. It further urged the Indian Government not to supply weapons to Myanmar Army in future.

**15.11.2022**_:_ Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.11.2022 expressed their serious concern over the alleged occurrence of huge firing incident at Tamu District, Myanmar on 14.11.2022 between Myanmar Army and PDF due to supply of weapons to Myanmar Army by Indian Government. Due to this incident, 1 (one) PDF had succumbed and 3 (three) persons sustained serious injuries. MZP strongly condemned Government of India for allegedly supplying weapons to Myanmar Army. It also maintained that MZP has been taking initiative for the safety of all Myanmar Refugees, who are taking shelter within Mizoram. It also underlined that MZP had approached Mizoram Government and submitted memorandum to Prime Minister and Ministry of Home Affairs for grant of relief to Myanmar Refugees. It further urged the Indian Government not to supply weapons to Myanmar Army in future.

**16.11.2022:** MZP General Headquarters is scheduled to organise ZOFEST 2022 during 6th to 9th December, 2022 at Sialsuk, Aizawl District.

**17.11.2022** : MZP Sub-Headquarters, West Phaileng, Mamit District in its Press Release issued on 16.11.2022 stated that Pu Zohmingthanga, Hindi Teacher, Dinthar Govt. Middle School was allegedly acted in an unfavourable manner against student of Class VII and 1 (one) Voluntary Teacher has been accused as giving undue favour to students, who are taking tuition under him during exam. In this connection, it urged the voluntary teacher not to continue his service and they also demanded the competent authority to place Pu Zohmingthanga, Hindi Teacher, Dinthar Govt. Middle School under suspension w.e.f. 21.11.2022. It further stated that necessary action will be taken, if the above demand is not met within the stipulated time.

****21.11.2022** : Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.11.2022 expressed deep regret regarding the problems being faced by Zo-ethnic tribes in Bangladesh due to the attack launched against KNA by Bangladesh Army and Arakan Army (AA). It strongly condemned Bangladesh Government for the said incident, and it urged Mizoram Government to take necessary action for Zo-ethnic tribes in Bangladesh. In connection with the said incident, leaders of MZP and Mizoram Bawm Students Association (MBSA) met Dr. Lalthangliana, Minister at the latter's office chamber today @ 12:30 p.m. and requested necessary action to provide necessary assistance to 271 refugees (may be read as 272), who are presently taking shelter inside Mizoram due to the stated incident.**

 A similar Press Release was issued by Mizoram Bawm Students' Association (MBSA) today.

**2.12.2022 :** The Final Round of Inter High School Quiz 2022, organized by Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) is scheduled to be held this evening of 2.12.2022 @8:00 p.m. at Ignite Studio, Khatla. Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Minister, Higher &amp; Technical Education will grace the function as Chief Guest and St. Pauls High School, Tlangnuam; St. Joseph High School, Ramhlun North and Kids Care High School, Ramhlun South will compete in the final round.

****07.12.2022 :** ZOFEST-2022 organized by Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) was commenced w.e.f. 6.12.2022 @6:30 p.m. at Chhinlung Pandal, Sialsuk and around 600 (six hundred) delegates attended. ZOFEST-2022 was continued on 7.12.2022 and Pu TJ Lalnuntluanga, Honble Minister of State, Transport, etc. graced todays function as Chief Guest and Pu Salai Lian Luai, Ex-CM, Chin State, Myanmar also attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu TJ Lalnuntluanga, highlighted the present crisis situation in Myanmar and Bangladesh, and expressed his believed that the situation would result better integration among various Zo-ethnic tribes.**

**08.12.2022** : ZOFEST-2022 organized by Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) was continued on 8.12.2022 at Chhinlung Pandal, Sialsuk. Andrew F Lalramnghaka, Vice President MZP General Headquarters presided over the function and Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Hon'ble Speaker of Mizoram graced the function as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech at the function, Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP stated that MZP opposes the obligation of ILP for Zo-ethnic from other states for entry into Mizoram, and expressed regret over issuance of order for conduct of census of various Mizo sub-clans along with non-Mizos by one officer from Lunglei District. Pu Lalhruaitluanga Chawngte, Adviser, MZP also delivered a speech and leaders of Chin Baptist Church Women (USA) and Myanmar MsP attended the function.

****09.12.2022 :** ZOFEST-2022 organized by Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) was continued on 9.12.2022 at Chhinlung Pandal, Sialsuk. Pu L. Ramdinliana Renthlei, Adviser MZP presided over the function and Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Honble Minister of State, Tourism, etc. graced the function as Chief Guest. ZOFEST-2022 will be concluded this evening.**

****14.12.2022 :** The 616th Executive Committee Meeting of MZP General Headquarters was held on 14.12.2022 @12:00 Noon at MZP Office, Aizawl. Lalnunmawia Pautu, President, MZP presided over the meeting and the meeting deliberated upon agenda including refugees from Bangladesh and Uniform Civil Code (UCC) recently introduced at Rajya Sabha. The meeting while deliberating upon the problems being faced by refugees, decided to visit refugee camps to examine their problems and to meet Government officials and BSF. It also resolved to donate funds collected during ZOFEST 2022 to refugees. The meeting also decided to conduct protest function of the introduction of Uniform Civil Code (UCC) at Rajya Sabha. The meeting also lauded the cancellation of construction of shelter for LGBTQI. MZP Office will be closed for the year 2022 on 16th December, 2022 and it will be reopened on 18th January, 2023.**

****16.12.2022** : Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held their office Closing Function cum Advance Christmas on 16.12.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at MZP Conference Hall. Pu Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice-President MZP presided over the function and Pu Lalnunmawia Pautu, President MZP delivered a speech. The function was attended by around 50 (fifty) members and their office will be re-opened w.e.f. 16.1.2023.**

**19.12.2022 :** Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.12.2022 stated that leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Pu Chinkhanmanga Thomte, Asst. General Secretary, MZP conducted spot visit of Bangladesh refugees, who are taking shelter at Vathuampui and Parva III village today and took stock of the situation. It also stated that they also visited the refugees accommodated at Chamdur P and Mautlang villages yesterday and handed over assistance.During their visit, a meeting was held with the refugees to discuss the various challenges faced by the refugees. It also stated that donation was collected for zo-ethnic Bangladesh refugees during the recently concluded ZOFEST 2022 at Sialsuk and the fund collected was distributed to the refugees during the stated visit. It further stated that the refugees have been temporarily accommodated at Chamdur P, Mautlang, Parva and Vathuampui villages and 'Village Level Committee on Bangladesh Asylum Seeker' was constituted to look after the refugees in each village. 14 (fourteen) refugee's families are accommodated in Chamdur P, 10 (ten) families in Mautlang, 23 (twenty three) families in Vathuampui and 34 (thirty four) families in Parva-III, added the Press Release.