**10.5.2022 :** Young Lai Association (YLA) Vathuampui Sub-Headquarters, Lawngtlai District submitted a written memorandum to the President, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters on 9.5.2022 wherein it stated that some persons who claimed to be members of MZP, Aizawl had tried to collect donation from non-Mizos residing within Vaseikai village area on 7.5.2022. It stated that even though they were instructed by YLA Vaseikai Branch and the Police not to engage in such activity, they had forcefully collected donation amounting to Rs. 60,000 on 8.5.2022. In this connection, it expressed regret and urged MZP General Headquarters to find out the person(s) responsible and to take necessary and severe action against them. It further urged for taking necessary action so that such incident does not recur in future.

 Information received in this connection stated that 7 (seven) persons who claimed to be members of MZP collected donation from 7 (seven) non-Mizos' stores/shops from Vaseikai village (Rs. 10,000 each from 5 stores and Rs. 5000 each from 2 stores) amounting to Rs. 60,000/-.

 It is also learnt that 3 (three) leaders of MZP General Headquarters led by Andrew F. Lalramnghaka, Vice President, and 4 (four) Lunglei MZP Sub-Headquarters leaders led by Lalpeksanga Chenkual, President, arrived at Chamdur 'P', Lawngtlai district on 7.5.2022 and attended the General Conference of Mizoram Bawm Students Association. They returned to Aizawl on the evening of 9.5.2022.

****23.5.2022** : Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) CEC Meeting was held on i.e., 23.5.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. at CYLA Office, Lawngtlai to discuss the transfer of 2 (two) Doctors from Lawngtlai District Hospital without any replacements. Pu Hc. Vanlalruatpuia, President CYLA presided the meeting and 25 (twenty) five members attended.**

**24.5.2022 :**

(a) Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) CEC Meeting held yesterday decided to call a Press Conference today i.e., 24.5.2022 in connection with transfer of 2 (two) Doctors from Lawngtlai District Hospital without any replacements. It also decided to organize indefinite picketing w.e.f., 25.5.2022.

 It may be mentioned that in another Transfer and Posting Order issued yesterday i.e., 23.5.2022, 3 (three) doctors have been transferred to District Hospital Lawngtlai viz., Dr. Lalbiakdiki, Civil Hospital Aizawl; Dr. Lalramhluna Tochhawng, Rawpuichhip PHC and Dr. K. Vanlalhriati, District Hospital Serchhip and at the same time, 4 (four) Doctors (including 2 (two) Doctors who are under order of transfer vide the previous Transfer and Posting Order) have been transferred out from District Hospital Lawngtlai.

(b) In pursuance of Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) CEC Meeting held on 23.5.2022, a Press Conference was called on 24.5.2022 @ 2:30 p.m. at Lawngtlai Press Club. Pu HC Vanlalruatpuia, President CYLA presided the Press Conference and around 15 (fifteen) persons including media persons attended. During the press conference, a press release was issued wherein they stated that Lawngtlai District is the most backward District in terms of infant mortality rate and malaria contraction rate, and there has been an acute shortage of staff at District Hospital Lawngtlai. In this regard, a written petition was submitted to the Chief Minister and Health Minister on several prior occasions to post more Doctors in the said Hospital. It also stated that Bungtlang South PHC has been functioning without Medical Officer since February, 2022 and in this connection, the concerned authorities were requested on several occasions. It further stated that, a reminder was submitted to the Health Minister on 9.5.2022 as their request has not been fulfilled by the state government. However, only 3 (three) Doctors have been transferred to District Hospital Lawngtlai while 4 (four) Doctors have been transferred from the said Hospital. It stated that District Hospital Lawngtlai is supposed to be 50 (fifty) bedded hospital and due to acute shortage of doctors, the Hospital is running as only 30 (thirty) bedded Hospital. It considered transfer of doctors from Lawngtlai District Hospital despite requesting the authorities to post additional doctors as disregard of the people of Lawngtlai District. It also stated that in view of the above mentioned issues, CYLA Executive Meeting held yesterday resolved the following:

 (i) Requested the state government to revoke transfer order of doctors from District Hospital Lawngtlai and to post Doctors viz., Gynaecologist, Paediatrician, General Surgeon, and Eye Specialist at said Hospital. Similarly, a separate Medical Officer, other than from District Hospital Lawngtlai, should be posted at Bungtlang PHC.

 (ii) CYLA should organize indefinite picketing in Lawngtlai town and Bungtlang South village w.e.f., 25.5.2022 in demand for immediate fulfilment of their demands.

****25.5.2022 :** Picketing was organized w.e.f. 25.5.2022 @ 8:30 a.m. in Lawngtlai Town and Bungtlang South village under the aegis of Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai and Bungtlang South PHC. As a result of the said picketing, all government offices, schools, banks and company situated in the stated town/village were closed for today. Around 270 (two hundred seventy) protesters participated in the picketing and performed duty at 17 (seventeen) locations in Lawngtlai town. So far, no report of any untoward incidents due to the stated picketing has been received.**
 In connection with the above, a Press Release was issued by CYLA today, wherein they expressed gratitude for the support rendered by residents of Lawngtlai District in the ongoing picketing. However, the picketing should be strictly carried on as no favorable information has been received in connection with their standing demands from the state government.

**26.5.2022 :**

(a) Young Mizo Association, Chawngte Group; Central Young Chakma Association, General Headquarters and Young Lai Association, Sub-Headquarters, Chawngte submitted a written Joint Petition to the Home Minister of Mizoram on 26.5.2022 wherein they highlighted the various problems faced by Chawngte Police due to shortages of manpower at the Police Station. It strongly demanded and appealed to take necessary action for posting of adequate manpower at the earliest. 

(b) Young Lai Association, Sub-Headquarters, Chawngte and Central Young Chakma Association, General Headquarters submitted a written Joint Petition to Health Minister of Mizoram on 26.5.2022 which highlighted the inadequate staff strength of Chawngte Community Health Centre (CHC) and requested for necessary actions on the following points:

 (i) To post regular MBBS at Chawngte CHC as the existing two doctors are  contractual workers.
 (ii) To post more staff nurse so as to meet at least half the strength of staff  nurse prescribed by the IPHS norms.

 (iii) To post X-Ray technician.

(c) Picketing organized by the Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai and Bungtlang South PHC in Lawngtlai Town and Bungtlang South village was continued on 26.5.2022. So far, no report of any untoward incident due to the stated picketing has been received. Information received stated that even though the government issued an order today for posting of 1 (one) doctor at Bungtlang 'S' PHC, CYLA intends to continue the picketing till all their demands are met by the state government.

****27.5.2022:** The picketing organized by Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in demand for posting of more doctors at District Hospital Lawngtlai in Lawngtlai Town was continued on 27.5.2022. However, the picketing organized in Bungtlang South village was called off w.e.f., 26.5.2022 @ 6:00 p.m. as the government issued an order for posting of 1 (one) doctor at Bungtlang 'S' PHC. So far, no report of any untoward incidents due to the stated picketing has been received. Information received stated that CYLA intends to continue the picketing till all their demands are met by the state government.**

****27.7.2022 :** Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in its Press Release issued on 27.7.2022 stated that CYLA organized picketing during 25th to 28th May, 2022 due to acute shortages of staff at District Hospital, Lawngtlai despite being the 2nd most populous district with highest Infant Mortality Rate and Malaria incidence rate within the State. It also stated that the picketing was called off as per the statement issued by the State government on 26th &amp; 27th May, 2022 wherein it stated that Gynaecologist, Paediatrician and ENT Specialists will be posted at District Hospital Lawngtlai. However, one of the most required specialist doctor i.e., gynaecologist has not been posted even after 2 months and such being the case, CYLA Central Executive Committee decided to take necessary action for posting of Gynaecologist at District Hospital Lawngtlai. In this connection, it requested the State government to post gynaecologist at the said Hospital before the end of 10.8.2022. If the state government fails to fulfil their request within the stipulated time, they intend to take severe necessary action including boycott of Independence Day Celebration.**

****10.8.2022 :** Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in its Press Release issued on 10.8.2022 expressed gratitude to the state government for posting Dr. Vanlalrini Sailo, MS (O &amp; G) at District Hospital Lawngtlai in pursuance of their Press Release issued on 27.7.2022, which urged the concerned authority to post specialist doctor i.e., gynaecologist at District Hospital, Lawngtlai before the end of 10.8.2022 and warned them of severe necessary action including boycott of Independence Day celebration at Lawngtlai, in case of no positive response on their demand. It also stated that CYLA will continue to monitor the condition of District Hospital Lawngtlai as the said Hospital is crucial for residents of Lawngtlai District. It further urged the state government to take necessary action so as to upgrade the present 30 bedded Hospital into 50 bedded Hospital and address the problems of shortages of Staff Nurse.**

**14.9.2022 :** Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in its Press Release issued on 14.9.2022 stated that the number of new drugs users has been increasing due to easy availability of drugs in the open market, and the same allegedly resulted hike in incident of theft and other crimes. In view of this, CYLA Drugs Reduction Squad (CDRS) was set up so as to combat drugs menace within their areas. In this regard, it appealed the support of various churches and the people of Lawngtlai District.

****15.9.2022:** Leaders of Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) led by Pu HC. Vanlalruatpuia, President CYLA along with authority of road contractors conducted spot verification of widening works of National Highway within Lawngtlai District on 14.9.2022, in connection with alleged sub-standard works and illegal excavated soil dumping. During the spot verification, it was found out that the retaining walls along the road were constructed using sub-standard materials and the excavated soils were dumped on the road side and other convenient places. In connection with the above verification, CYLA convened a meeting with sub-contractors of the said road in the evening of 15.9.2022 @4:00 pm and the meeting is still going on at the time of writing the report.**

**4.11.2022 :** Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) in its Press Release issued on 4.11.2022 stated that on 14.10.2022, 3 (three) YLA members from Rulkual and Pu Francis Rochungnunga on 3.11.2022 had died due to electrical accident and they alleged occurrence of the said incident as due to negligence of P&amp;E Department. In this regard, the general public staged agitation last evening. In connection with last evening incident, CYLA immediately contacted the concerned Government authorities for taking necessary action against the person(s) responsible. It further stated that in pursuance of their request, SDO, P&amp;E Lawngtlai has been placed under Suspension and a criminal case was registered against Control Room Duty. Case has been registered and necessary enquiry is being underway in connection with Rulkual incident. Further, the concerned Minister also assured to give Ex-gratia compensation to relatives of the deceased.

**7.11.2022 :** 9 (nine) leaders of Paithar Tlangdung VC Association and Young Lai Association (YLA) Paithar Group met SP, Lawngtlai on 7.11.2022 @11:30 p.m. and it was highlighted in the meeting regarding submission of fresh FIR so as to expedite investigation of electrical accident case at Rulkual village, which led to the death of 3 (three) persons. It may be mentioned that a suo-moto FIR was registered on the said incident at Lawngtlai PS vide C.No. 64/22.14.10.2022 u/s 304(A) IPC. Thereafter, they met EE, P&amp;E Lawngtlai and during the meeting the EE, P&amp;E Department stated that immediate necessary action will be taken once the victims' family submitted the required documents for claiming compensation.
**5.12.2022 :** Central Young Lai Association (CYLA) OB Meeting held on 5.12.2022 resolved to submit a written petition to Central Ministry regarding reported denial of Bangladesh refugees' entry into Mizoram by BSF. The meeting also entrusted Tuithumhnar Group YLA and Vathuampui YLA Sub-Headquarters for distribution of refugees into various villages. 

**08.12.2022 :** Young Lai Association (YLA) Vathuampui Sub-Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.12.2022 expressed strong resentment over alleged forceful collection of donation from shop owners in Vaseikai village by MSU General Headquarters on 7.12.2022, which is under YLA Vathuampui Sub-Headquarters. It strongly condemned this incident despite issuing their objection against forceful collection of donation without their prior consent within their area. It further expressed that such forceful collection of donation should not occur again in future.