**10.1.2022 :**

(a) ZPM Party Office Re-opening cum Induction of Members Function was held on 10.1.2022 @11:00 a.m. at ZPM Party Conference Hall, Aizawl. Pu Lalduhoma, MLA &amp; Leader ZPM General Headquarters presided the function and around 80 (eighty) members attended. During the function, Pu K Sapdanga, Working President delivered a speech wherein he stated that ZPM General Headquarters already gave approval for constitution of 760 (seven hundred sixty) ZPM Units across the state and around 100 (one hundred) Units are being under scrutiny for giving approval. Pu C. Laltanpuia, Treasurer ZPM inducted 8 (eight) members into their party. A Press Release in this regard was issued on the same day.
(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.1.2022 stated that broom harvesting season for the current year has started and residents of Mizoram who are having broom cultivation farm land at Aitlang are believed to be scared of harvesting the same without Police escort as their farm lands are presently occupied by Assam Police. It also stated that Assam Police did not allow farmers of Saihapui 'V' to harvest their fresh Betel Nut from their farmlands. In this connection, they urged the state government to take necessary action.

**1.2.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 1.2.2022 which highlighted that the Chief Minister announced that SEDP will be distributed from 2022 and he entrusted MNF Unit as an 'agency' to select beneficiaries under SEDP and also publicly informed not to select Congress and ZPM families. It alleged that the act of publicly announcing that the State Budget will be used for seeking votes and appointment of Party Unit to choose beneficiaries amounts to clear violation of law, utter disrespect of the people and the most abhorrent act in the history of Mizoram politics, and ZPM will not sit back and watch in silence.

(b) ZPM Thalai/Youth in its Press Release issued on 1.2.2022 highlighted that power tariff was hiked by 20.68% as per the suggestion of the government last year, i.e., 2021 and ZPM strongly opposed the move. It stated that the government again recently suggested for hike in power tariff by 21.05% and this shows that the government has no love for the people. It also stated that the Hon'ble Governor has recently said that various central government's programmes did not reach its intended targets and ZPM considered his statement to be shameful for the MNF government. It alleged that the suggestion made by the government for hike in power tariff is due to lack of love for the public.

****2.2.2022** : ZPM Political Affairs Committee held a meeting on 2.2.2022 @11:00 a.m. at ZPM Committee Room, ZPM Office, Republic, Aizawl under the guidance of Pu K Sapdanga, Working President, and around 20 (twenty) members were present. The meeting discussed about a Consultation Meeting convened by BJP Mizoram Pradesh on 28.1.2022 at BJP Office and passed the following resolutions :-**
i) Not to participate in any future Consultation Meeting called by BJP Mizoram  Pradesh.
ii) It considered the intention of BJP Mizoram Pradesh to remove its ally MNF from the seat of power by using the Centre's might as a clear indication of the failure of MNF government.
iii) The matter concerning moving of Notion Confidence Motion in the Assembly  House is left at the discretion/decision of the ZPM Legislature Party.
A Press Note to the above effect was issued by the party on the same day.

**14.1.2022 :** Pu Vanlalhlana, MLA, Dy. Leader, Z.L.P., issued a Press Statement today, i.e., 14.1.2022 which highlighted that the people of Mizoram are surprised over the posting &amp; transfer order issued by the government on 13.1.2022. It stated that DC, Kolasib and DC, Champhai were instantly transferred from their posts. It also stated that honest and good government employees tend to suffer under a bad government and it considered the above two officials to be victims of such government and it demanded the government to take steps so that such incident do not recur.

****17.1.2022:**ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.1.2022 stated that Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President held Press Meet at Champhai Press Club the same day and Pu VL Zaithanzama, MLA; Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA; Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member and leaders of ZPM Champhai also attended the Press Meet. During the Press Meet, Pu K. Sapdanga stated that the manner in which DC, Champhai and DC, Kolasib have been transferred out from their present post is being widely discussed across the state as the general public suspected presence of irregularities. He also stated that good and competent employees tend to suffer under bad government and it is considered that disappointment of higher authorities over the stated officers as the reason for their transfer. It also stated that leaders of ZPM conducted spot visit of Mizoram Police Duty Outpost and Assam Rifle Duty Post to verify the recently discussed Areca Nut smuggling the same day.**

****21.1.2022** :ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 20.1.2022 which highlighted that Pu Vanlalhlana, Aizawl North-I MLA, visited 3 (three) localities under the constituency, viz., Bawngkawn Shalom, Bawngkawn Vengthar and Bawngkawn Venglai, and inspected the completed, ongoing and future developmental works and projects. The MLA stated that there are still a number of roads to be constructed and due importance are being given to such road construction projects. He was received by Welfare leaders of the localities and they inspected developmental works being carried out using MLA Fund and he also thanked Welfare leaders for their cooperation and support. The MLA was accompanied by 2 (two) Aizawl North-I ZPM Block Vice Presidents and leaders of Shalom ZPM Unit, the PR concluded.**

****24.1.2022 :** ZPM Thalai/Youth called a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 24.1.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. under the guidance of J. Lalramnghaka, ZPM Thalai General Secretary (Publicity Department), and he was accompanied by 8 (eight) ZPM Thalai leaders and around 15 (fifteen) media persons attended the press conference. A Press Statement of J. Lalramnghaka was issued which highlighted that the magisterial investigation report submitted by Pi Esther Leihang, Executive Magistrate, Champhai district, on 17.12.2021 clearly stated that Champhai police informed her that they could not stop vehicles carrying Arena Nut due to the instruction of the Police Headquarters and it expressed sadness in this regard. It stated that the order issued by the Police Headquarters in the midst of an order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for stoppage of all Arena Nut transportation and follow-up order issued in this regard by the Home Department, Government of Mizoram on 2.12.2019, clearly shows that rule of law and justice finds no central place under the MNF government. It further stated that whereas, Pu Lalruatkima, I&amp;PR Minister, stated that Areca Nut were seized by the government and not by DC, Champhai, illegal Arena Nut business continued to be carried out as per the Police Headquarter's arrangement and this clearly demonstrates that MNF plays drama with regard to illegal areca nut trade, and it also expressed surprise over the continued silence of the Home Minister, Commerce &amp; Industry Minister and over the inaction of the Agriculture Minister. It stated that such being the case, people could not believe the statements made by the Chief Minister with regard to Areca Nut trade. It further stated that the state is getting nearer to become 'Mexico of the East' rather than 'Switzerland of the East'.**
****27.1.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters issued a Press Release on 27.1.2022 wherein it criticized and demanded the government to lower its intention to collect Rs. 7 per 1 kg of broom as royalty. It stated that as per the government's arrangement, indigenous brooms (other than those cultivated by the farmers on private lands) are placed under the control of Mahaldars and they cannot be exported outside the State except through them. It expressed sympathy to the farmers and it asked the government whether it intends to raise money through such farmers depending on indigenous brooms in order to raise funds for SEDP.**

****28.1.2022 :** Zoram Peoples Movement (ZPM) called a Press Conference on 28.1.2022 @ 12:00 Noon at Aizawl Press Club under the guidance of Pu Lalduhoma, MLA &amp; Leader ZPM and he was accompanied by 6 (six) ZPM members and 11 (eleven) media persons attended the press conference. A Press Statement was issued which alleged presence of huge Fertilizer and Areca nut smugglings under Congress and MNF governments. It also stated that India is one of the largest producer of Areca nut in the world and around 6 (six) crores people earned their livelihood. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Ministry of Finance fixed the amount of tariff to be paid for importing Areca nut, and Rs. 371 per kg of Areca nut, excluding Basic Custom Duty of 100 % and GST 5 %, is to be levied as per the current tariff. It also stated that the central government allows import of Areca nut only in paper considering the excessively high tariff rate. It further highlighted various instances of seizure of Areca nut by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Assam Police during Congress and MNF governments. It also stated that Karnataka State Areca nut Marketing Federation in its complaint submitted to Home Ministry in October, 2019 alleged MAMCO of giving transit pass by certifying smuggled Areca nut and Chillies as locally produced goods. In this connection, the Home Ministry issued direction to Chief Secretary of Mizoram and Manipur to take necessary action against illegal Areca nut smuggling on 31.11.2019. However, the State government merely forwarded the same to concerned DC and SP without any commitment to execute the same. Such being the case, involvement of high ranking officials in Areca nut smuggling is strongly suspected. It also highlighted the various initiatives taken by Pi Maria CT Zuali, DC, Champhai in connection with combat of Areca nut smuggling and immediate registration of FIR submitted against her by Pi Lalhruaitluangi. It alleged that the State's boundary is unsafe and the general public feels insecure under the present State government. It also stated that if ZPM is in power, border trade will be carried out as per law and appealed the general public to bravely step forward in order to uphold dignity.**

**3.2.2022 :** ZPM Thalai in its Press Release on 3.2.2022 welcomed the allocation of funds for construction of Aizawl Bye-Pass Road and Bamboo Link Road under the PMDivINE in the Union Budget tabled by the Union Finance Minister. At the same time, it expressed hope that the funds will be utilized correctly for the intended purposes.

**7.2.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.2.2022 asked whether the government is trying to place the task of assisting Myanmar refugees at the hands of NGO. It alleged that the government washed its hands from the responsibility of looking after the refugees. In this regard, it expressed its inability to understand as to why the government set up Village/Local Level Committee on Myanmar Refugees for the above purpose. It further alleged that the government fails to take up its responsibility and left the people to solve their problems by themselves. It also stated that the responsibilities of providing safety and other basic needs of the refugees rest solely upon the MNF government.

****8.2.2022:** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.2.2022 stated that ZPM Party submitted a complaint to JERC against the proposal submitted by the Power &amp; Electricity Department, Government of Mizoram, for hike in electricity bills by 21.05 % today. It also stated that the State government has taken no initiative for power generation and it expressed their desire to explore ways to procure power at lower rate. It urged the State government who promised to distribute Rs. 3 lakhs to make provision to subsidize power tariff instead of increasing it. It further stated that Pu PC Vanlalruata, Secretary General, ZPM, who submitted the stated complaint expressed disappointment over the proposal for hike in electricity bills. He also stated that they had already opposed the State's government proposal to increase electricity tariff by 41.92 % in 2021 and it strongly condemned similar initiative being taken again this year by the State government which will cause burden to the general public.**
**9.2.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on the evening of 8.2.2022 highlighted that MNF Party attacked Mizoram Media (Zozam Times) without having the courage to attack Assam Media (Barak Bulletin). It expressed surprise that MNF Party specifically attacked Zozam Times and ZPM PAC Member for their act of publishing/posting what was written by Barak Bulletin about the presence of Abu Mazumdar (alleged to be involved in areca nut smuggling and currently wanted by Assam Police) in the the Chief Minister's of Mizoram entourage at a dinner with the Assam Chief Minister on 25.11.2021 at New Delhi. It also expressed surprise that the Chief Minister's of Mizoram entourage gave tremendous attention to Abu Mazumdar and even requested the Assam Chief Minister to invite Abu Mazumdar in the said dinner.

(b) Pu Lalduhoma, MLA, Leader ZPM, issued a Statement on 9.2.2022 which highlighted the plight of grape growers of Champhai and Hnahlan areas. It stated that the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India categorize 'Wine' as Food Item and 'Winery' as Food Processing Unit and Wine and Liquor being two separate items, it should not be measured on the same scale. The Statement highlighted how wine is legally manufactured in some States of North-East India. It stated that there are around 750 (seven hundred fifty) grape growers in Champhai and Hnahlan areas and it is grown with the approval of the government under Section 70 of the Mizoram Excise and Narcotics (Wine) Rules, 2008. In this regard, it stated that the government has supported and granted financial assistance (Rs. 166 lakhs under MIP) and provide various other tools and facilities to the 2 (two) Grape Growers Society. It further pointed out that while Grape growers are striving forward with zeal and enthusiasm, the Cabinet Sub-Committee made a tragic decision against manufacture of wine in the State, which brought tears to the grape growers. It stated that ZPM stands with the grape growers and shares their pain and expressed desire for review of the above decision by the Cabinet. Further, if the decision of the Sub-Committee is to be implemented, it demanded for grant of compensation and necessary arrangement to be made so that grape growers can make fresh start for their livelihood.

**10.2.2022:** ZPM Thalai in its Press Release issued last evening, i.e., 9.2.2022 alleged that Pu James L. Chhakchhuak, MNF General Headquarters Secretary, was appointed as leader (representative) for smooth running of illegal areca nut business by 4 (four) groups/associations having involvement with the business. It also expressed concern that Abu Majumdar may be appointed as OSD by the Chief Minister. It further informed all ZPM Thalai (Youth) members to have a look out for Abu Majumdar in their respective areas.

****11.2.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (Youth) in its Press Release issued on 11.2.2022 stated that SEDP Board Meeting was held only once during the tenure of the ruling MNF's government and the same indicated the state government negligence of its flagship programme i.e., SEDP. It also stated that at the same time, Vice-Chairmen of causeless SEDP Boards were given the rank and status of Minister of State, and Rs. 2.6 cores were expended annually for their administrative expenses. It further questioned achievement of such causeless SEDP Boards during the last 4 (four) years of its existence. It also considered setting up of SEDP Boards as incurring unnecessary expenditure from the public money amidst COVID-19 pandemic and financial hardship faced by the state government.**

**16.2.2022** : ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.2.2022 acclaimed Pi Margaret Lalramchhani, IFS, DFO Kolasib, for having arrested 8 (eight) non-Mizos of Assam who were engaged in illegal felling of bamboos inside Mizoram and for seizures of the felled bamboos.

**18.2.2022:**  ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.2.2022 stated that it is unfortunate to have a government that need to be pushed. It expressed surprise that lakhs of rupees have not been paid by the government to suppliers of food at Covid Care Centre (CCC) even after lapse of many months. It also expressed concern whether funds received from the Centre to fight Covid-19 have not been spent for the intended purposes. It further stated that while Kamrul Uddin Lasker could start the Airport renovation work even before having the Work Order, it is unfortunate to have a government that turn a deaf ear to the people, requires to be pushed and pays no attention to its pending debts. It asked whether local PPE tailors and suppliers of food at CCC should continue to suffer as a result of a rift that exist between Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Health Minister and Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister &amp; Finance Minister. It also demanded the Finance Minister to take steps for payment of pending bills of food supplied at CCC.

****21.2.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 21.2.2022 which highlighted the signing of an MOU by Sericulture Department and K. Lalmuanpuii, proprietor of Lenbuang Handloom &amp; Handicrafts. As per the MOU, Sericulture Department will provide silk yarn to weavers to be selected by K. Lalmuanpuii and the Department will buy back the finished products after deducting the cost of silk yarn. It stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA Aizawl North-II, acted as the witness in the MOU and Lenbuang Handloom &amp; Handicrafts is having an agreement with the MLA and measures to provide employment to around 100 (one hundred) families under Aizawl North-II constituency through handloom is being undertaken.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.2.2022 demanded the government to stop the ongoing renovation work of Lengpui Airport and to issue fresh open tender for the said work. It stated the work was awarded through restricted tender to Kamrul Uddin Lasker, who pretended to be a Mizo in the name of Kamlova Chhangte and someone who is said to be close to Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister. It also said that the said Kamrul was nowhere to be found at his official address during the time of search conducted by ZPM Thalai on 11.2.2022 and by the MSU. It alleged that there exist gruesome irregularities in the said renovation work and it asked whether a work order was issued to a non-existent person in the name of Kamlova so that someone could reap the benefits, and it demanded the government to make an explanation.

22.2.2022

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.2.2022 expressed serious concern about the appearance of the name of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker of Mizoram Assembly House, in the statement issued by Ngaizawl All NGO &amp; VC Coordination Committee yesterday, i.e., 21.2.2022 which highlighted his involvement in the Khawzawl-Ngaizawl PMGSY Road black topping/white topping work. In this regard, it demanded Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker of Mizoram Legislative Assembly, to make an explanation. It further stated that if the allegation is true, then the Speaker has tarnished the image and responsibilities of the Speaker by taking advantage of his position to have dealings with contractors for financial profit and it demanded for his resignation.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 22.2.2022 highlighted that Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, held an interaction with media persons at Siaha Press Club today. Pu K Sapdanga stated that the people want to see a new peoples' government with a new method/system and are ready to try out Pu Lalduhoma's led government. He also alleged that in spite of having good, competent and smart MsLA, the current Chief Minister of Mizoram put more faith in Kamrula and Abu Majumdar and even the party's top brass are surprised over his actions, and it led to tug of war within the party. He also pointed out that ZPM unanimously accepted Pu Lalduhoma as the party's Chief Ministerial Candidate. He further invited the people of MADC to support ZPM in the coming MADC election.
(c) ZPM Thalai Headquarters called a Press Conference under the guidance of Pu Laltanpuia Zote, Vice President ZPM Thalai on 22.2.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and 8 (eight) media persons were present. A Press Statement of Pu Laltanpuia Zote was issued wherein it asked whether the government will take action against Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker of Mizoram Legislative Assembly, as he is responsible for the sub-standard construction of Khawzawl-Ngaizawl road. It stated that Ngaizawl All NGO &amp; VC Co-Ordination Committee has highlighted that the said PMGSY road was undertaken in the name of Pi Collin Lalsangpuii by Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker and it urged the Speaker to make an explanation in this regard. It also stated that the Speaker should resign from the position of both the Speaker and MLA if he is involved in contract work in violation of the Section 9A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and return Rs. 100 lakhs which was alleged to have been pocketed by the Speaker.

****22.2.2022:** 5 (five) Congress Party MsLA and 3 (three) ZPM MLsA met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister &amp; House Leader, Mizoram Legislative Assembly, at his Office Chamber today @5:10 p.m. and submitted a joint written petition requesting that the ongoing Budget Session of Mizoram Legislative Assembly be presided by the Deputy Speaker due to alleged involvement of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, in corrupt act in connection with construction of Ngaizawl road, which renders him unfit to preside the House. The joint petition was signed by Pu Zodintluanga Leader, Congress Legislature Party and Pu Lalduhawma, Leader, ZPM Legislature Party.**

23.2.2022

(a) ZPM Media &amp; Publicity Department issued a Press Release on 23.2.2022 which highlighted the statement made by Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, during his interaction with media persons at Lawngtlai Press club today. Pu K Sapdanga stated that ZPM Party has no intention to form an alliance with any other political parties in any elections. He also stated that both the Congress and MNF party are rather united in spreading false rumor among the public and in this regard, he clarified that there is no tug of war among the party leaders and people wants to experiment with Pu Lalduhoma's led government. He also expressed the party's intention to give its best so that the Lai District and Lawngtlai town have their own ZPM Minister in the next 2023 General Election.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters submitted a letter to the Hon'ble Governor of Mizoram on 23.2.2022 wherein it requested for an appointment in the coming week to discuss current political scenario of Mizoram. It highlighted about the existence of rampant corruption charges and mudslinging on the ruling MNF Party with regards to smuggling and smugglers' involvement in the high level. It also stated that the Hon'ble Speaker is being charged with having subsisting contract with the government and the opposition MLAs walked out from the Assembly Session earlier today and the party had submitted complaint to the Mizoram Lok Ayukta to initiate necessary action. In view of the above, it requested the Hon'ble Governor of Mizoram to grant an appointment at a suitable date and time in the coming week.
 A Press Release in this regard was issued by ZPM party later today wherein it also advised Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Mizoram Assembly Speaker, not to preside the sitting of the House unless and until his innocence is proved concerning allegation of his involvement in Ngaizawl PMGSY road construction work. A written complaint was also submitted to the Chairman, Mizoram Lokayukta to enquire into the matter and initiate necessary legal action.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held its Office Bearers' Emergency Meeting on 23.2.2022 @11:00 a.m. at its party office under the chairmanship of Pu Lalliansawta, President. The meeting was joined by all ZPM sitting MsLA (except Pu C. Lalsawivunga) and altogether 18 (eighteen) persons were present. The meeting decided that if the Speaker continue to conduct the business of the House on 24.2.2022, the party will again boycott the Assembly Session. Their further course of action is left at the hands of the PAC.

 As per input, Congress Party also intended to boycott the Budget Session tomorrow if it is presided again by Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker.

****24.2.2022:** ZPM General Headquarters convened its Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting under the chairmanship of Pu Lalliansawta, President, on 24.2.2022 @12:00 noon at ZPM Party Office, Aizawl and 20 (twenty) members, including 5 (five) ZPM MsLA were present. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the Party today which highlighted that a complaint was submitted by the Party to the Mizoram Lok Ayukta to investigate into the involvement of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Mizoram Legislative Assembly Speaker, in corrupt practice. The PAC felt it enough to boycott the sitting of the Budget Session for 2 (two) consecutive days considering the importance of the Assembly Session and the crucial role played by the opposition parties and decided to resume attending further sitting of the House. It also highlighted the Party's intention to further pursue the charge of corruption leveled against the Speaker and at the same time, it requested the government to strengthen the Prosecution and Investigating Staff of the Lok Ayukta.**

**25.2.2022**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 25.2.2022 highlighted that Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister, explained about awarding of government contract seemingly in defense of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, and to absolve those illegally undertaking works and it expressed surprise in this regard. It alleged that the chief Minister made statement in defense of the Assembly Speaker and Kamrula during his interaction with the medias yesterday, i.e., 25.2.2022. It stated that from the light of the Chief Minister's statement, there are a number of people who are executing contract works under the government by using the name of others (contractors). It stated that while the people expect the Chief Minister to make statement against the above malpractice and for initiation of suitable action, it alleged that he instead spoke in defense of such wrongdoers. It further stated that ZPM party will watch the action taken by the government against such illegal act of using of other's name to execute contract work under the government.

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters issued a Press Release on 25.2.2022 wherein it lauded and expressed support to Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA, who introduced a Private Member Bill in the Assembly House for the welfare of the drivers. It highlighted the various welfare measures contained in the Bill, such as pension, insurance benefits, etc. It further expressed regret that the Bill was rejected as it was not supported by the ruling MsLA.

28.2.2022

(a) ZPM Family Devotion Function was held on 28.2.2022 at ZPM Office. Pu Phairothanga, General Secretary, GAD, ZPM presided the function and around 40 (forty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM stated that Pu Lalduhoma is ZPM Chief Ministerial candidate in the coming general election and appealed party members to revive themselves keeping in view of the coming general election. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its another Press Release issued on 28.2.2022 stated that leaders of ZPM General Headquarters led by Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President met Dt. Hari Babu Kambhampati, Hon'ble Governor of Mizoram at Raj Bhavan today to discuss the present condition of Mizoram and swift necessary follow action for a complaint submitted against Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, Mizoram Legislative Assembly. It also stated that ZPM submitted a complaint to Lokayukta in connection with alleged involvement of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker, Mizoram Legislative Assembly in having subsisting contract with construction of Khawzawl to Ngaizawl under PMGSY and receiving illegitimate money amounting to Rs. 100 lakhs from the stated contract work. It also stated that during inspection conducted by CYMA as per their MOU signed with MPWD, the name of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Speaker was occurred two times in the contractor list and the same is in violation of Section 9A of RP Act, 1951. In this connection, they requested the Hon'ble Governor to take necessary action for immediate completion of the investigation. It further stated that discussion was also held on presence of rampant corruption within the state and the statement of Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister at a Press Meet after introduction of the new budget, wherein he allegedly stated allotment of contract works to non-contractor and allotment of work through restricted tender as normal practice.

(c) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.2.2022 stated that leaders of ZPM Thalai and ZPM Tuivawl South Block visited the newly constructed Darlawn PHC Building the same day. During their visit, Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice Chairman ZPM Thalai Headquarters questioned whether the Chief Minister and the Health Minister are competing in awarding restricted tenders. He also stated that Zamzo Engineer, Construction &amp; Consultancy, Bawngkawn was awarded 12 contracts worth Rs. 3536.64 lakhs upto 7.9.2021 out of the total works allotted i.e., Rs. 5500 lakhs under Health Department during the same period. It also stated that various sub-standard works were found during their inspection of Darlawn PHC Building, which was constructed by Mizoram Technocrats Company (P) Ltd. In this connection, it urged MNF government to immediately conduct inspection and take necessary action.

(d) Pu V. Kapchungnunga, Ex-Vice President, ZPM Southern Headquarters and Pu Duhawma Rokhum, Ex-General Secretary, ZPM Southern Headquarters called a Press Conference on 28.2.2022 at Aizawl Press Club. During the Press Conference, they highlighted formation of ZPM and stated that the following as the reasons for leaving ZPM :-

 (i) Establishment of new Unit in violation of their principle.

 (ii) Formation of new unit in Chakma area.

 (iii) Support of hike in salary of MLA by ZPM MsLA.

 (iv) Non availability of team work and better coordination within   ZPM.

**1.3.2022:** ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 1.3.2022 expressed regret for allegedly having incompetent Assembly Speaker amidst the MNF government needs close monitoring in terms of financial management and administration. It also expressed disappointment over alleged improper guidance of the House by Assembly Speaker. It also urged Assembly Speaker to guide the Assembly without biasness in order to maintain proper decorum and upholding the status of the House.

**7.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 4.3.2022 highlighted that a new ZPM Unit was set up at Dawrpui Veng, Aizawl under the initiative of ZPM Aizawl East-II Block, and Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM Party President, inducted new members into the party fold. The Press Release also highlighted the names of the new Dawrpui Veng ZPM Unit leaders.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 7.3.2022 stated that a Party Devotion was held today at their Party Office, Aizawl and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President, inducted 4 (four) new members into the party, including Pu Kawlhnuna (IFS Rtd.), College Veng and Pu R. Rohnuna, Chanmari West, Aizawl. Delivering a speech, Pu K. Sapdanga alleged that the main aim of the ruling party is to disturb and create problem for their Party Leader Pu Lalduhoma. He also said that 'restricted tender' is the most popular English word under the present MNF government, whereas 'anticipatory bail' was the most popular word under the previous Congress government. He further pointed out that the 'people' and not 'bamboo' will be their flagship programme when they form the government.

(c) ZPM Thalai General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 5.3.2022 which highlighted that Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, ZPM Headquarters Thalai President &amp; AMC Ward-18 Councillor, visited some villages under Dampa East which are affected by COVID-19 pandemic and handed over relief items.

**9.3.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (Youth) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.3.2022 alleged that Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister, have failed in financial management and that the outstanding debts of big States cannot be compared with that of Mizoram. It stated that the Chief Minister has made a comparison in the ongoing Budget Session between the debts of Mizoram and other major producing States in India and this shows his failure in financial management and it demanded the Chief Minister to give the finance portfolio to other more competent person. It further stated that the Chief Minister made a statement that inabilities to pay the salaries of government employees on time was not disgraceful for the government and in this regard, it alleged that the MNF government have no regard for the government employees who has lend their salaries to the government to tide over the COVID-19 financial crisis.

****10.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.3.2022 alleged that it is clear from the 4th Budget tabled in the House by the government that its flagship programme on SEDP has no clear direction and there is nothing to hope for the people in the 2022-2023 Budget. It stated that funds allocated for the general development and wellbeing of the people has decreased year by year. Similarly, funds allocated for the economic sector has also reduced from 31% to 24% in the new Budget. It also alleged that appropriate and polite conduct is found wanting in the conduct of the Session and the Speaker failed to enforce proper decorum inside theHouse. It further stated that the real financial position of the State (revenue deficit, total outstanding debts, etc.) vis-à-vis the GSDP should be shown in terms of percentage in the Medium Term Fiscal Policy Statement and showing the same in amount, and not in percentage, is considered by the Party to be an attempt to deceive the public. It requested the government to follow the Mizoram Fiscal Responsibilities and Budget Management Act 2006 and to tell the truth in a manner comprehensible to the people.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.3.2022 alleged that Dr. K. Beichhua, Excise Minister, has failed under a bad leader. It stated that people were shocked when the Minister asked in the Assembly House whether there may be people selling illicit liquor. It also expressed surprise over the import of 45 (forty five) piglets at the cost of Rs. 88 lakhs and in this regard, it demanded the Minister to make an explanation to the public as it reminded the people about the purchase of expensive socks under the previous MNF government.

**11.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.3.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM, inducted 218 (two hundred eighteen) new members into their party at a function held today at Bairabi Chhimveng, Kolasib district. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalduhoma stated that there is no scope for the Congress Party to win the next election in view of the result of the recently concluded elections viz. AMC, Serchhip and Tuirial By-Election and appealed all congress members to join their party. He also stated that Mizos are deprived under the MNF government as most contract works are being awarded to Kamrula Chhangte, and patients are facing difficulties due to high debts under the Health Care Scheme. He further stated that they will give first priority to sons of the soil and there would not be a place for smugglers under their government. The Press Release also stated that Pu R. Lalruaia, ZPM Kolasib Block President presided the function and the ZPM Leader was accompanied by members from ZPM General Headquarters and ZPM Kolasib Block.

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.3.2022 stated that leaders of ZPM Thalai led by Dr. C. Lalrammawia, ZPM Thalai Sr. Vice President, conducted spot verification of the site of collapse of under constructed Lengpui Airport building, which is being constructed through restricted tender, the same evening. It also stated that Dr. C. Lalrammawia expressed his surprise over the statement of the Chief Minister wherein he expressed his support to restricted tender in the recently concluded Budget Session. He also stated that Rs. 1489.39 lakhs was allocated to Civil Aviation under SEDP and Rs. 3,041 lakhs was received as Central Assistance for renovation of the stated Airport. He also urged the Chief Minister not to continue renovation work of the Airport without conducting proper verification of its safety for the Public.

****14.3.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 14.3.2022 highlighted that it held its Party Devotion at ZPM office today and held a review of the recent Budget Session in which ZPM MsLA delivered speeches. Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, mentioned in his speech that his request submitted for 'calling attention' on areca nut smuggling was not permitted and he alleged that the ruling party is afraid to encounter face-to-face. He also alleged that the government is afraid to have a lengthy session and MsLA did not have adequate time in the House. Pu Vanlalhlana, MLA also pointed out that ZPM MsLA were able to perform their duties in the Assembly Session. Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA also expressed his happiness for being able to stand for the drivers of Mizoram despite being opposed and attacked for introducing a Private Member Bill for the drivers in the Assembly House. The Press Release also highlighted the speech of Pu Lalchhuanthanga, MLA and Pu VL Zaithanzama, MLA.**

**17.3.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued 17.3.2022 highlighted the visit of Model Veng and Dam Veng Health Sub-Centres by Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, Councillor, AMC Ward - 18 &amp; President, ZPM Thalai (Youth). It also stated that during the visit, Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte handed over Fetal Doppler machine (examination of heart condition of foetus). In this regard, staff of the above mentioned Health Sub-Centres expressed gratitude to their councillor.

****21.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.3.2022 highlighted that the recent AMC Board of Councillors Meeting was reviewed in a devotion held today at ZPM party office and 2 (two) ZPM Councillors, viz., Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte and Pi C. Lalchhandami delivered speeches. Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte pointed out that 10 (ten) out of the 12 (twelve) questions raised in the 2-day long BOC Meeting were submitted by ZPM Councillors. Pi C. Lalchhandami also said that ZPM Councillors rendered their best efforts in the said BOC Meeting and raised questions concerning various important matters. She also said that the allegation levelled against her by 5 (five) Local Council Chairman belonging to MNF Party concerning sole utilization of Property Tax return was baseless and false and all expenses were made as per the decision of the Ward Committee.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters called a press conference under the guidance of Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President, today, i.e., 21.3.2022 @12:00 noon at Aizawl Press Club and 10 (ten) media persons were present. A press statement was issued which stated that an advertisement was issued by East Lungdar Group MNF Secretary for appointment of 2 (two) posts of teachers and 1 (one) post of LDC and selection was made by East Lungdar Group MNF and Unit

****22.3.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued 22.3.2022 highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana, ZPM Legislature Party Secretary; Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member and members of Vigilance Department and Media &amp; Publicity Department conducted spot verification of problems faced by patients due to non-functioning of CT Scan Machine at Aizawl Civil Hospital for a long period. They also visited the Directorate of Health and Medical Education to enquire into the matter. Dr. Vanlalthlana expressed regret that CT Scan Machine was lying non-functional for nearly 6 (six) months at the hospital. He also said that the government should be sensitive and feel the sufferings and hardships of the people. The Press Release also mentioned the party's intention to keep watch on the status of CT Scan Machine at the Aizawl Civil Hospital.**

****23.3.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 23.3.2022 highlighted that Pi C. Lalchhandami, AMC Ward-III Councillor, inaugurated the new MUP Building constructed using Property Tax Return 2021-2022 at Ramhlun Sports Complex, Aizawl, today. It stated that the construction was started by Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA of the Constituency, and it was completed by the said Councillor using the Property Tax Return. Delivering a speech, the Councillor stated that senior citizens are our library and whenever an elder dies, a library is lost. The Press Release also stated that Ramhlun North Local Council House is also undergoing renovation using the same fund and is expected to be completed very shortly. Pi C. Lalchhandami also expressed regret over the steps taken to tarnish her image while best efforts are being rendered for the Ward and she appealed all the Local Councils under AMC Ward-III to instead work together for the development of the Ward.**

****24.3.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.3.2022 highlighted that its leaders led by Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, President, ZPM Thalai Headquarters, visited Aizawl Treasury Office on 23.3.2022 &amp; 24.3.2022 and learned that the financial position of Mizoram is in a bad shape. It stated that despite only 5 (five) days remaining for the end of Financial Year, the 'daily ceiling limit' of Aizawl North Treasury is only Rs. 40 lakhs and Rs. 65 lakhs for Aizawl South Treasury. It also stated that GP Fund amounting to Rs. 68 lakhs is lying pending and bills worth crores of rupees are also lying pending at the Treasury. In this regard, it considered the above situation as akin to closure of the Treasury and it asked the Chief Minister whether huge amount of money will go lapse or will be deposited in words in the government's K-Deposit.**

****28.3.2022:** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued today, i.e., 28.3.2022 stated that ZPM family devotion function was held today and delivering a speech at the function, Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA stated that corruption and undue favouritism should be vehemently fought and who are not free from such kind of practice should not be given power/authority. He also stated that corruption is main obstacle of development of the state and we should form a government who is ready to fight corruption and award punishment to the offenders. It also stated that Pu C. Lianzuala, Adviser presided the function and Rev. JC Vanlalluaia held devotion. The function was attended by Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM; Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President; Pu Lalduhoma, Leader and leaders of ZPM Headquarters.**

****(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.3.2022 stated that ZPM Tuikum Block held Political Training Function the same day at Thentlang YMA Hall. It also stated that delivering a speech at the function, Pu Phairothanga, General Secretary i/c GAD, ZPM stated that if ZPM is in power, they will prioritize the opinion of Churches and NGOs. It further stated that Pu F. Lalrosanga, President, Tuikum Block presided the function and 22 (twenty two) new members were inducted into their party. Further, Pu Lalthazuala Rawite, General Secretary i/c Organisation South and Pi Baryl Vanneihsangi, AMC Councillor also delivered speeches at the function.

****29.3.2022**  (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.3.2022 stated that Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West III MLA visited the site of works undertaken using MLA fund at various places in Khatla and Mission Vengthlang area on 28.3.2022. The MLA stated that he wanted to be an MLA who is appreciated by residents under his constituency for his efficient and better execution of work. It also stated that Pu VL Zaithanzama has closely monitored the various works undertaken using MLA fund within his constituency. Pi Ramthanzauvi, AMC Ward XIV Councillor and leaders of their Party accompanied the MLA during his visit of the stated area, added in the Press Release.**
(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.3.2022 stated that Seminar on Budget organized by Entrepreneurship, Youth Empowerment and Development Department under ZPM Thalai was held today @ 1:00 p.m. It also stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA Aizawl North II delivered lecture on the Budget and leaders of ZPM Thalai Headquarters attended the function.

****31.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.3.2022 stated that Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West-III constituency MLA visited the site of various already completed and ongoing development works undertaken using MLA fund within Bungkawn Vengthar and Maubawk areas yesterday, i.e., 30.3.2022. It also stated that the MLA highlighted the needs for protection and preservation of Vai river and Tuikual river, tributaries of Tlawng river (the main source of drinking water of Aizawl city). In this connection, he urged the state authorities to take necessary action.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.3.2022 stated that Entrepreneurship, Youth Empowerment and Development Department, under ZPM Thalai Headquarters organized Seminar on Budget today @ 1:00 p.m. at ZPM Thalai Headquarters Office. It also stated that Dr. KC Malsawmzauva, General Secretary i/c Policy ZPM delivered lecture and leaders of ZPM Thalai Headquarters attended the Seminar. It further stated that a similar function under the guidance of Dr. Vanlalthlana Aizawl North-II constituency MLA was already held on 28.3.2022.

****31.3.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.3.2022 stated that Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West-III constituency MLA visited the site of various already completed and ongoing development works undertaken using MLA fund within Bungkawn Vengthar and Maubawk areas yesterday, i.e., 30.3.2022. It also stated that the MLA highlighted the needs for protection and preservation of Vai river and Tuikual river, tributaries of Tlawng river (the main source of drinking water of Aizawl city). In this connection, he urged the state authorities to take necessary action.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.3.2022 stated that Entrepreneurship, Youth Empowerment and Development Department, under ZPM Thalai Headquarters organized Seminar on Budget today @ 1:00 p.m. at ZPM Thalai Headquarters Office. It also stated that Dr. KC Malsawmzauva, General Secretary i/c Policy ZPM delivered lecture and leaders of ZPM Thalai Headquarters attended the Seminar. It further stated that a similar function under the guidance of Dr. Vanlalthlana Aizawl North-II constituency MLA was already held on 28.3.2022.

****4.4.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.4.2022 highlighted about the visit of various villages under Chalfilh Constituency by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, during 29.3.2022-1.4.2022. It stated that public meetings held at various villages during the visit were greatly valued by the people. Delivering speeches at such meetings, Pu Lalduhoma stated that God prefers justice, obedience and grace over sacrifices and His commandments are to be followed on earth. He also said that God's kingdom should come in the field of politics. He further said that the people wants to set up a non-Congress and non-MNF government and ZPM is confident and ready to form the government. The Press Release also highlighted that Pu Lalduhoma inducted 496 (four hundred ninety six) voters of various villages into the ZPM party fold.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion under the guidance of Pu R. Lalngheta, ZPM Adviser, on 4.4.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their party office and around 40 (forty) members were present. Pu Lalliansawta, President, ZPM gave a report on his recent visit of various places in Mizoram and he also pointed out that ZPM General Headquarters has given a great deal of thought and efforts in order to attain victory in the upcoming Lunglei Municipal Council (LMC) and Mara Autonomous District Council (MADC) elections. He said that a committee has been set up for the above elections and all candidates will be chosen and decided by the General Headquarters, and he urged the party members not to be swayed by rumours. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party today.

**7.4.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on7.4.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, at a public meeting held at Ngopa Zawlbuk on the evening of 6.4.2022. Pu Lalduhoma stated that ZPM give top priority to manual workers and will devise plan for their upliftment. He also said that gruesome nepotism exists with regard to awarding of contract works under the present ministry and some works were even executed without issuance of any Work Order. He stated that all contract works will be completed on time when ZPM comes to power and defaulting contractors will be penalized. He also stated that a 'Monitoring Council' will be set up to look after all developmental works. He further said that ginger will be purchased at Rs. 50/kg for the benefit of the farmers. The Press Release also highlighted that Pu Lalduhoma inducted 418 (four hundred eighteen) new members into the party.
**8.4.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.4.2022 expressed gratitude over the results of Chhinga Veng and Tuikhuahtlang LC by-elections held yesterday, i.e., 7.4.2022. It stated that coming very close to the ruling MNF party indicates the bright future prospect of ZPM party. It congratulated winning candidates and also praised the party's candidates of both the LCs for their commitment and all voters for their support.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release on the same day highlighted the speech made by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, at public functions organized in 4 (four) villages under Lengteng Constituency, viz., Kawlbem, Teikhang, Hrianghmun and Mimbung. The ZPM Leader stated that there is a need to educate people to remain faithful in 'policy' rather than in a 'political party' and obsession with a particular party has destroyed the State in a major way. He also said that recruitment to government jobs will be undertaken on a merit-based and fair manner under the ZPM government and MSSSB will be immediately dissolved.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Statement made by Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President at Siaha Press Club on 8.4.2022. Pu K Sapdanga highlighted the importance given by the party to the people of MADC and on the upcoming election. He mentioned about the immediate convening of an emergency meeting right after the announcement of the election and stationing of more than 20 (twenty) ZPM leaders in the MADC area. He also stated that the party has achieved tremendous progress in the MADC and is intending to field candidates in all the constituencies. He also said that the party's candidates are being informed not to resort to unfair methods in their electoral campaigns

****11.4.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.4.2022 highlighted the visit of 7 (seven) villages under Lengteng Constituency by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, viz. Pawlrang, Hliappui, Chhawrtui, Puilo, Vancheng, Dulte and Kawlkulh and held a public meeting in each of the places visited. The ZPM Leader stated in his speech that ZPM will set up a 'people's government' rather than a 'party government' and alleged that the government shuns the farmers. He further stated that farmers of rural areas are never included in the State Budget despite having the Agriculture Minister, and ZPM will take up more systemic and meaningful steps for the farmers. He also said that ZPM will introduce 'Zau System' for better utilization of unutilized lands wherein farm villages cultivating particular crop will be set up. The system will counter shifting cultivation and bring in permanent livelihood for the farmers. The Press Release also stated that Pu Lalduhoma inducted 1030 (one thousand and thirty) voters from 14 (fourteen) villages under Lengteng Constituency into ZPM party fold.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion under the guidance of Pu Paul Remthanga, PAC Member, on 11.4.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their party office, Upper Republic, Aizawl and around 100 (one hundred) members were present. Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President delivered words of encouragement to unsuccessful ZPM Candidates of recent LC by-elections. Pu Vanlalhlana, Aizawl North-I MLA, also delivered a speech highlighting the need for the party to remain careful while giving due regard to God. He stated that steps taken with noble aims by other political parties often bring dishonour for their party. Tour reports were also given by 4 (four) groups recently on tour, viz., MLA team, Lengteng Constituency team, Serlui Constituency team and MADC team, in today's programme. It stated that ZPM is witnessing progress in various parts of the State which has given them tremendous inspiration for the next 2023 General Election. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party today.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 11.4.2022 highlighted that Siaha District Headquarters held its party devotion today. Pu R. Zonunsanga, PAC Member, delivered a speech and Er. Lalhmingliana, GS i/c Minority inducted 104 (one hundred and four) new voters into the party. Pu R. Zonunsanga stated that many ZPM supporters do not feel necessary to openly enroll their names in the party and the party will depend on God to transform the social life of the State. Er. Lalhmingliana also said that candidates who are the choice of the younger generations will be fielded in the MADC Election and he urged the party workers not to expect money from the party's candidates. Pu Phairothanga, GS i/c GAD also delivered a speech at the Political training held after the devotion programme wherein he alleged that MNF will not form the next government due to the conduct of the Chief Minister. He also said that the people as well as MNF party members did not understand how the last year's budget of Rs. 18000 crores (including Rs. 6000 crores supplementary demands) were spent by the MNF government.

**12.4.2022 :**(a) ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 12.4.2022 which highlighted the visit of Lengpui Airport by ZPM Legislature Party today to enquire into the construction works being undertaken at the Airport. It stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader led the visit and 3 (three) ZPM MsLA of Aizawl were also present. The Press Release highlighted the speech of Pu Lalduhoma wherein he has pointed out that the renovation work is being carried out in a sub-standard manner. He also expressed surprise that no enquiry has been initiated to find out the reason(s) for collapse of the construction work and to award suitable punishment to those responsible. He said that Kamrul Islam Laskar, who is undertaking the Airport construction work, is greatly favoured by the Chief Minister. He also expressed his desire that all the works undertaken at various places by the said Kamrul should be inspected so as to avoid more serious misfortunes. He further pointed out the various works awarded at the Airport during a span of 7 (seven) months to the said Kamrul amounting to Rs. 28,19,44,00 (twenty eight crores nineteen lakhs forty four thousand). He further expressed their firm belief about the existence of the real contractor and owner of the contract works behind the said Kamrul.

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 12.4.2022 demanded Dr. R. Lalthangliana, H&amp;TE Minister &amp; MLA of South Tuipui Constituency, to upgrade Thingsai HSS and Cherhlun HSS from ad-hoc Grants-In-Aid status to full-fledged government school as was promised by him during the 2018 General Election. It expressed regret that top leaders of MNF often fail to remember their electoral promises and further stated that MNF government cannot be trusted again by the people of southern Mizoram in the coming elections.

**13.2.2022 :** (a)ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 13.2.2022 highlighted the announcement of ZPM Party Official Candidates for the upcoming MADC General Election at the Conference Hall of Siaha Tourist Lodge today. The programme was led by Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, Chairman, ZPM MADC Election Committee, and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President, made the official announcement. ZPM fielded Candidates in 8 (eight) MADC Constituencies and Pu K. Sapdanga expressed gratitude for being able to contest in 8 (eight) constituencies in the maiden ZPM Party MADC Election contest. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga also mentioned in his speech that candidates were selected with due care and after careful consideration.

(b)ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 13.4.2022 highlighted that Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA, inaugurated a new Science Stream Building constructed at Central Higher Secondary School, College Veng, Aizawl. It stated that the construction work was started in the previous MLA term and completed by the said MLA using his MLA Fund with active collaborative efforts of the Managing Board. The MLA mentioned in his speech about the importance of science stream for the State.

****18.4.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion on 18.4.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their party office, Republic Veng, Aizawl, under the chairmanship of Dr. Kenneth Chawngliana, Vice President and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President, inducted 2 (two) persons into their party fold, viz., Prof. Lalnilawma, HoD, Dept. of Extension Education &amp; Rural Development, MZU and Pu KC Lalnunngheta, Dinthar, Aizawl (Dinthar Congress Unit Ex-Treasurer). A Press Release in this regard was issued which also highlighted the speech made by the ZPM President and newly inducted Pu Lalnilawma.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) in its Press Release issued on 14.4.2022 demanded Pu Lalrinsanga Ralte, Serlui Constituency MLA, to clarify about spending of more than Rs. 1800 lakhs for construction of around 70 kms length road at Assam-Mizoram border during a span of less than a month (20.10.2021 - 23.11.2021) and it asked whether he received any financial gain out of the said road construction. It also urged the MNF to bring in development at the border areas not for financial gain, but out of love and true concern for the State.

**19.4.2022 :**ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.4.2022 highlighted the visit of Aizawl Civil Hospital today by Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President and other ZPM leaders to look into CT Scan installation work being undertaken at the hospital. It stated that it was the third visit of the party leaders in connection with installation of CT Scan at the hospital and Pu K. Sapdanga expressed deep regret over the non-functioning of the said vital machine for 6 (six) months as it brings tremendous hardship to the poor people. He also said that the party will wait the government to finish the said installation within the month of April, 2022, and the party will take more stringent steps to push the government if the installation is not completed by then. It further stated that the reason for non-completion of installation of a new CT Scan machine purchased last year is not due to technical problem, but lack of 'political will' and 'negligence' on the part of the government leaders.

****22.4.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.4.2022 expressed surprise for not releasing compensation to victims of outbreak of African Swine Flu (AFS) within the state. It also questioned the state government about their intended date to release the said compensation as fund for the said purpose was already received from Central Government, and urged the state government to immediately distribute the said compensation. It further stated that as many as 29,824 (twenty nine thousand eight hundred and twenty four) pigs died due to outbreak of ASF within the state during March to December, 2021, and additional 770 (seven hundred seventy) pigs also died during January to April, 2022 and 124 (one hundred twenty four) pigs were culled during the same period. It also stated that Rs. 5,84,97,000 was released by Central government on 22.3.2022, and in this connection, it asked Dr. K. Beichhua whether inability to meet state matching share of 50 % of the total compensation as the reason for non payment of compensation till date.**

****25.4.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release issued on 25.4.2022 which highlighted that party devotion was held today under the guidance of Pu Lalthansanga, Ex-MLA &amp; ZPM Vice-President and around 70 (seventy) members were present. It highlighted the speech of Pu Lalthansanga wherein he has highlighted the history and development of ZPM since its inception as a 'movement'. He stated that ZPM has been set up to save Mizoram from its state of anxiousness. He also stated that ZPM remain committed and firm to its principle on 'People's government - New system'. He further stated that Pu Lalduhoma is selected as CM Candidate by the Val Upa Council (VUC) and the decision of the VUC is final in all party matters/issues. Speaking about the development of Delhi under 'IRS Kejriwal', he stated that 'IPS Duhoma' will become 'Zoram Kejriwal'.**

**28.4.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters issued 3 (three) Press Releases on 28.4.2022 as under:

 1. ZPM is undertaking massive electoral campaign for the forthcoming MADC Election and important leaders of the party, viz., Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President; Pu Lalduhoma, Leader; MsLA; AMC Councillors and a number of ZPM General Headquarters leaders are stationing in Siaha district. Pu K. Sapdanga, while delivering a speech at a public meeting organized at Na-aohtlah (Niawhtlang) on 27.4.2022, expressed his faith and confidence upon the 8 (eight) ZPM Candidates. He also pointed out the laudable performances of ZPM MsLA and AMC Councillors, and stated that ZPM Candidates can also do the same in MADC, if elected. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, ZPM MADC Election Committee Chairman, also mentioned that the party can now expect to win more than 1 (one) Seat in the coming MADC Election and it is highly unlikely to have a MADC government without ZPM participation after the MADC 2022 Election.

 2. Leaders of ZPM continue to undertake rigorous election campaign for the MADC Election slated to be held on 5.5.2022 and Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, visited Tokolo, Bymari, Lomasu and Laodaw and convened a public meeting at such places. Delivering speeches at such public meetings, Pu Lalduhoma stated that ZPM will form the government in 2023 and MADC will not be under the MNF government. He also said that Congress is declining nationwide as well as in Mizoram and he pointed the need for Congress party to make necessary adjustment as per changing realities, and there is a place for them in the ZPM. Speaking about the MNF, the ZPM Leaders said that the people of Mizoram no longer trust Pu Zoramthanga to look after the State finance and their days will come to end after 1 (one) year, and he invited MNF members to join the ZPM.

 3. Pi C. Lalchhandami (Pi Damtei), AMC Ward III Councillor handed over water tanks to 15 (fifteen) families and tin roofing sheets to 5 (five) families under her Ward today. She also highlighted the need for judicious use of water and promotion of rainwater harvesting. She also visited Govt. Model English Medium Primary School, Ramhlun North and gave 1 (one) Sintex water tank.

 (b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.4.2022 stated that Dr. C. Lalrammawia, ZPM Thalai Sr. Vice President delivered a speech at a campaign function held at Niawhtlang-III Bazar today and appealed residents of Niawhtlang constituency to exercise their franchise for themselves and their children instead of party lines, i.e., Congress, MNF or BJP. He further appealed to cast their vote in favour of ZPM so as to bring changes in the administration. He also stated that remark made by Pu Robert Romawia Royte labelling Siaha District as the most backward district amounts to disregard of the Mara people. He further stated that socio-economic inequalities exist between the people of Aizawl and Siaha and ZPM will not make any discrimination among the districts.

**2.5.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.4.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, ZPM MADC Election Campaign Committee Chairman, in a public meeting organized the same day at Siaha. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga stated that other political parties have seen with their own eyes that ZPM reached the southern end of the State and it made them anxious.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 30.4.2022 highlighted that Aizawl North-II ZPM Block Conference was held at Holiday Palace, Sihhmui, Aizawl, and Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, who attended the programme stated in his speech that corruption and flagrant nepotism will be put to an end under the new system. He also highlighted the need to bring in sustainable development and how many vital developmental assets for the State have not been materialized due to corruption. He further highlighted the various developments taking place under his constituency, such as learning on baking &amp; confectionery, steps taken for setting up of 4 (four) common facility centres, food processing, etc.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.5.2022 highlighted that the party held devotion cum induction of new members programme today and 95 (ninety five) persons (28 families from MNF, 16 families from Congress and other neutral voters) were inducted into the party by Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President, and Pu Haukhuma Hauzel, IAS (Rtd.), ZPM Consultant also delivered a speech. The PR highlighted the speech of the ZPM President wherein he has pointed out that setting up of people's government instead of party's government is one of the key objectives of the party. He also said that the State has so far experienced only party's government. He further stated that ZPM is witnessing tremendous progress in recent days at various places. He also pointed out failure to set up CT Scan machine at Aizawl Civil Hospital by the government during the past 6 (six) months and their ongoing enquiry concerning mismanagement of funds borrowed from NABARD. In this regard, he stated that they expect to receive answers/replies very soon on their RTI queries submitted to Education Department and Aizawl North Treasury on 29.3.2022 and 6.4.2022 respectively. Pu Haukhuma Hauzel also stated in his speech that citizens can and should demand accountability from their elected representatives and it is their right to know about the financial position of the State, its revenues and expenditures. He also said that it is the MNF and not ZPM which is 'unstable as water'.

****4.4.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.4.2022 stated that ZPM MADC Election Campaign Closing function was held at Siaha Bazar Traffic Point the same day. Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President chaired the function and he stated that everyone should exercise their franchise for themselves and appealed the general public not to use politics as a means to cause destruction to the state. He also stated that ZPM flagship programme is the general public, and works will be started from the next day of forming the government. It also stated that Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, Chairman, ZPM MADC Election Committee and Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, General Secretary, ZPM also delivered speeches at the function.**

****5.5.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.5.2022 highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, undertakes 5 days extensive tour of different localities under his constituency and visited various educational institutions and works being carried out using MLA Fund. The MLA expressed his overall satisfaction about the progress of such works and also stated that MLA Fund should be utilized for the people and for development of the community and the State.**

 Polling to the 25 (twenty five) members Mara Autonomous District Council (MADC) Election commenced on 5.5.2022 @ 7:00 a.m. and successfully concluded this evening @ 5:00 p.m. No untoward incident occurred and the percentage of votes polled is expected to be around 80%. Counting of votes will be held on 9.5.2022.

****9.5.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.5.2022 alleged the government as failing in financial management. It stated that while Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister, talked about increase in the state's income and tax revenue collection, bills to the tune of Rs.59,63,40,278/- are lying pending under the Mizoram Health Care Scheme till mid-February, 2022, and this depict the failure of the MNF government in financial management. It asked the government as to why enrolment charge/fees under the said scheme have been increased, and it also urged the government to immediately clear health care pending bills.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion under the guidance of Er. Lalhmingliana, General Secretary on9.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their party office, Upper Republic, Aizawl and around 50 (fifty) members were present. The party issued a Press Release to this effect which highlighted the speech made by Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member in today's programme. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga stated that ZPM started from scratch in the MADC Election and has made tremendous progress and the party is having a bright prospect in the next 2023 General Election. He also said that they cannot win the coming election using money power and the party should give its best efforts and boldly lead from the front to transform the state.
(c) ZPM General Headquarters in its statement issued on 9.5.2022 congratulated those who have emerged victorious in the 12th MADC Election and it conveyed best wishes towards setting up of people's government. It also thanked the people of Siaha district for supporting ZPM and its allied Independent Candidates. It also welcomed the sound cooperation between Election Committee set up by the ZPM General Headquarters and District party leaders.

**10.5.2022 :**

 (a) Pu Lalchhuanthanga, MLA, Aizawl South-II, issued a statement on 10.5.2022 wherein he has stated that the ongoing construction of Aizawl Bazar/Market Building (Aizawl City Centre Annexe) remains incomplete at the expiry of scheduled date of completion and this amounts to neglect and disregard of the people, as well as those who are depending on the market for their livelihood. He stated that the work was started on 4.10.2018 and although it was to be completed within 3 years, only 35% of the work has been completed till date. He also announced to the people that the entire fund for the said construction is being deposited by the MNF government under the 'K. Deposit'.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release on 10.5.2022 stated that the meeting of ZPM Val Upa Council (VUC) held on 28.4.2022 resolved that those holding important positions in the party and all future ZPM MLA candidates should invariably be free from any intoxicating substance, and the same was announced by Prof. Thangchungnunga, ZPM VUC Secretary, in the party's devotion held on 9.5.2022. The VUC also felt it necessary to be particular about the character of party leaders as it is a party that aims to introduce 'new system', and its resolution to this effect was given in writing to Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM Party President, for necessary action.

****11.5.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.5.2022 expressed regret over preparation of Identity Card (ID) by the Assam Police for Mizos having farm cultivation inside Mizoram at Vairengte Mautui Zau and it attributed to be due to the weakness of the Home Minister of Mizoram. It stated that Assam Police has constructed camp and performed duty at Mautui Zau since the beginning of this year and has destroyed the Areca nut plantations of the Mizos. In this regard, it demanded the Home Minister to take brave steps for free movement of Mizo cultivators and residents of Vairengte at Mautui Zau and for immediate evacuation of the area by the Assam Police.**

****12.5.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued ON 12.5.2022 highlighted that Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West-III MLA, attended the International Nurses Day celebration organized by Blessino Nursing School, Maubawk as Chief Guest today. Delivering a speech, the MLA highlighted the importance of nurses and also expressed regret that the International Nurses Day is not widely known by the people. He called nursing as a noble profession and declared Mizo nurses as the best in India. He also said that if there is a better equipped hospital and good doctors, people from outside the state would be coming to Mizoram for medical care.**

**13.5.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 13.5.2022 expressed regret that the basic needs of police force deployed for safeguarding the border has not been provided to them. It stated that video about 2 (two) police personnel drawing water at Saipum area went viral on various social media platforms and considering the reason for their punishment and events on ground, it appears that it is the government which is not solving the problem of police personnel. It stated that as the two policemen appears to have committed no wrong under the law, it demanded the government to immediately revoke their punishment. It also asked whether the government has failed to initiate any significant steps for solving border disputes due to concern for its NEDA partner. It further alleged that the government has no real intention of solving the border issues.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 13.5.2022, highlighted that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, who is currently touring Tuichang constituency, held public meeting at Chalrang and New Chalrang villages this morning. Pu Lalduhoma stated in his speech that ZPM wants to set up a people's government with new system so as to make Mizoram a better place. He also highlighted the need to bring in a new government as the state has been under the Congress and MNF rule for the last 50 (fifty) years. He pointed out the weakening position of Congress party across the country, as well as existence of huge pending healthcare bills, award of works through restricted tenders and massive funds borrowed from various banks by the present MNF government. He further pointed out that MNF members are in agony due to the conduct of their leaders and it is believed that people will reject the party in the 2023 General Election even if they field good candidates again.

**17.5.2022 :**

(a)  Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member &amp; Chairman, LMC Election Committee, ZPM General Headquarters, called a press conference at MJA Press Club, Lunglei on 14.5.2022 wherein he has highlighted about the party's preparation for the Lunglei Municipal Council Election which is intended to be held within this year as per the announcement made once again by the Dy. CM. It criticized the government for non-completion of Ward Delimitation exercise till date, non-finalization of the powers and duties to be given the Lunglei Municipal Council, sources of revenues for administration, creation of proper executive body, etc.

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.5.2022 highlighted that ZPM Thalai Headquarters organized 'Entrepreneurship and Handholding Livelihood Programme' at their party office. Delivering a speech, Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, President, pointed out the need to play inclusive politics which reaches to all the people.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held its Executive Committee Meeting on 17.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall, Aizawl. The meeting was chaired by Pu Lalliansawta, President, and around 150 (one hundred) members were present. The meeting approved the new ZPM Party Constitution after making necessary modification and also approved ZPM Policy for the next 2023 General Election. The meeting also made, inter alia, the following resolutions and accordingly appeal the people:

 (i) It welcomed the announcement of Pu Lalduhoma as the ZPM Chief Ministerial Candidate for 2023 General Election by the Val Upa Council and appealed the support of the public.

 (ii) As an advocator of New System, all important leaders of the party and MLA Candidates should be free from any intoxicants.

 (iii) The government has received tremendous help from individuals, NGOs, Church and the Central government due to COVID-19 pandemic and hence, the pandemic created no worthy excuses for the government in matters of undertaking developmental works and the state's administration.
**18.5.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.5.2022 expressed serious concern over the damage and pollution caused to the rivers of the state as a result of dumping of excavated soil from road construction works being carried out by the NHIDCL. It stated that excavated soil if not managed properly affects the environment and in this regard, ZPM has already devised a proper soil management policy which will be enforced by Village Development Committee in rural areas, AMC in Aizawl, LMC in Lunglei and Town Committee in other urban areas. It stated that the government has constituted Roads and Infrastructure Development Board on 29.7.2020 under the Chairmanship of the Chief Minister to inspect and monitor roads constructed by NHAI, NHIDCL, etc. and other agencies of the Central government and it demanded that the Board take speedy steps and fulfil its assigned tasks.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 18.5.29022 highlighted that Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West-III MLA, continued his visit programme of various educational institutions under his constituency. It stated that the MLA visited Bungkawn, Maubawk and Lawipu the same day and during his visit, he pointed out the vital role of education in the society and state. He also mentioned the need to allocate more funds in the State Budget for development of Education.

(c) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.5.2022 expressed regret that students and teachers of various government schools in various parts of the state are in distress and could not attend schools during the recent heavy downpour due to dilapidated state of school buildings. It asked whether Rs.35 crores borrowed on loan from NABARD were not used for the correct intended purposes and it demanded the Education Minister to make explanation to the public. It further demanded the Education Minister to take necessary actions so that instances of closure of schools or students put together in the school's kitchen for their safety do not happen again in the coming monsoon days.

****19.5.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.5.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader who is currently on tour to Hachhek constituency inducted 874 (eight hundred seventy four) new members into their party in a public meeting held on 18.5.2022 at Zawlnuam Thuampui Veng. The same evening, he also visited Mizoram Police personnel deployed at Medili Bridge and held a public meeting at Kanhmun village. It also stated that a public meeting was held today at Thinghlun and Luimawi village. Delivering a speech at the public meetings, Pu Lalduhoma stated that the state government has huge pending liabilities, and unable to pay pension benefits to retired government employees. It also has long pending health care bills and assistance to old age and orphan has been pending. It further stated that during his visit to the Medili Bridge, he stated that villages along the border areas should be developed so as to protect the state boundary and the same will be prioritised, when they form government. It also stated that Pu Lalduhoma was accompanied by Pu C. Lalthanfela, General Secretary; Baryl Vanneihsangi, AMC Councillor; leaders of ZPM General Headquarters and ZPM Block under Hachhek constituency.**

**20.5.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.5.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM General Headquarters, inducted 142 (one hundred forty two) new voters into ZPM at Siaha ZPM Party Office today. It stated that Pu Lalliansawta is currently on tour to meet and thank ZPM Candidates and Independent Candidates backed by ZPM in the recent MADC Election. Delivering a speech at today's induction programme, Pu Lalliansawta lauded ZPM Candidates and urged them to nurture ZPM seeds that they have successfully planted in Maraland.

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.5.2022 alleged that both the Congress and MNF have the same desire and objective and even though they appear to be at loggerheads with each other, they do not hesitate to work together to stay in power. It stated that MPCC entered into an alliance with the MNF party shortly after it has made clear announcement that it will not work together with either the BJP or MNF. It also stated that even though MNF betrays its partner BJP in the MADC, the people of Mizoram will never forget their affinity as long as it remains at NDA and NEDA.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 20.5.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, continue his tour of Hachhek Constituency and delivered speeches at public meeting organized at Bungthuam Community Hall last evening and Zawlpui community Hall this morning. The ZPM Leader stated that ZPM give due concern to the state's boundary and will set up a 'boundary committee' if voted to power. He also said that at present, emphasis is being given only to maintenance of status quo and neighbouring states keeps on violating it, resulting in gradual loss of the state's territory and there is no firm resolve to solve the border issues. He also said that unification of all Zo-ethnic people will remain the political goal of the party. He further said that there are so many people supporting ZPM that they could not be all inducted. He also stated that ZPM party has overcome all kinds of problems that could befall a political party and has emerged as the most united, enthusiastic and dependable party. The Press Release also stated Pu Lalduhoma was accompanied by several party leaders and people gave them warm welcome in all the villages. He also paid a visit to Mizo IR personnel deployed at Zawlpui village, the Press Release concluded.
(d) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.5.2022 highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, today inaugurated Special Library for Civil Services Examination and CCTV at Ramhlun Venglai and Ramhlun Vengthar, Aizawl, which will be useful for civil service aspirants. The MLA highlighted the importance of libraries and stated that education/learning and books are well connected and one should learn how to make use of library. He also said that CCTV cameras have been installed at various localities under Aizawl North-II under Phase-I and steps are being taken to implement Phase-II, and they are found to be extremely useful by the concern locality as well as police on duty.

**23.5.2022** :

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.5.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader continued his visit of various villages under Hachhek Constituency and held public meetings at such places. Pu Lalduhoma stated in those meetings that if ZPM manage to form the government by the grace of God and the people, it will bring in a new system and new method. He also said that they try to do away with 'party government' and instead will set up a 'people's government'.
**(b)****ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion under the guidance of Pu Lalthlamuana, GS at their party office, Republic Veng, Aizawl on 23.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and around 80 (eighty) members were present. Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President inducted 64 (sixty four) voters into their party and out of which 9 (nine) persons physically turned up for the induction. Delivering a speech, Pu K. Sapdanga stated that people gave warm welcome to ZPM leaders wherever they were on tour and people across the state expects ZPM party to win the 2023 General Election. He also said that politics and religion can both go together in a clean and proper manner. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party.**


(c) ZPM Thalai in its Press Release issued on 23.5.2022 demanded the Chief Minister to distribute locally produced rice as ration. It stated that people are shocked over the statement made on 21.5.2022 by Pu K. Lalrinliana, Supply Minister that there is no locally produce rice in the rice stock maintained by the department. It stated that the Chief Minister pointed out before the 2018 General Election about the existence of 70,000 hectares of plains in Mizoram and if voted to power, the state would be made self-sufficient and no longer depends on rice procured from outside the state. It demanded the Chief Minister to fulfil his promise, distribute farm machineries to paddy field owners, and make the state self-sufficient in rice production and to announce as to when Mizo rice will be distributed as ration.
**27.5.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 27.5.2022 highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA inaugurated Baking &amp; Confectionary, Fashion Designing and Tailoring (Febry Institute of Skill Development &amp; Training) Centre today. Delivering a speech, the MLA welcomed the setting up of the Centre to provide livelihood to the youths. Pi C. Lalchhandami, Councillor, AMC Ward-III, who also delivered a speech at the function, expressed gratitude for having an MLA who gives great concern to the youths and also stated that one should have determination, hard work and dedication to be successful in training. The PR also highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana and Febry Institute of Skill Development &amp; Training Centre signed a working agreement on 22.4.2022 and the MLA has given substantial amount of money from his MLA Fund for the development of the Centre.

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 27.5.2022 expressed support to agitations taken up by CYLA, Lawngtlai and Saitual Joint V/C against shortages of doctors and also requested the Health Minister to stop fawning the Chief Minister through social media and to perform his duties properly. It stated that people faces frequent problems as a result of inadequate or absence of proper medical equipment due to the weakness of the Health Minister. It slammed the Health Minister for instances of transfer of doctors from district capital without replacement, absence of specialist doctor in a district headquarters, inadequate medical equipment at Aizawl government hospital and it also considered him to be the weakest Health Minister in the country.

**30.5.2022 :**

ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion cum induction of new member programme at their party office, Aizawl on 30.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. The programme was led by Pu Saithuama, G.S. and around 60 (sixty) members were present and Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader inducted 4 (four) persons into their party. Addressing the members present, Pu Lalduhoma stated that one cannot be a leader of the state for more than two terms in a more developed countries as they consider it unnecessary to have a leader who cannot bring in development within two terms.

He also said that ZPM party will continue to search for new leaders for the state while continuously guarding each other from any wrong path. He also said that ZPM has finalized its policy for 2023 General Election and is ready to form a new government. He further stated that the government has betrayed Grape growers in the state and as the same is also mentioned in the SEDP book, it should give compensation to them.

A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party on 30.5.2022.

**31.5.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.5.2022 asked whether the Agriculture Minister has no courage to defend the Grape growers. It stated that shortly after the Excise Minister emphasized that recent seizure of grape wine was done as it was prohibited by law, he again said that seizures were made as a part of crackdown on liquor. In this regard, it alleged that if the Excise Minister was not aware of actions taken by staffs under him, it shows that he is incompetent in his work. It also expressed surprise over the continued silence of the Agriculture Minister as farmers are in distress due to seizure of wine by the Excise Minister and it also asked him whether he is aware of the statement made by the Excise Minister that the government will give attention to the Grape growers. It further asked as to exactly how the MNF government will resolve the problems faced by the Grape growers and what arrangements will the Agriculture Minister make for selling of grape at meaningful rate.

****1.6.2022 :** Pu Lalchhuanthanga, Aizawl South-II MLA, issued a Press Statement today, i.e., 1.6.2022 which highlighted his visit of various Health Care Centre under his constituency wherein he found Health Department to be in dire need of strengthening as their equipment are in a bad shapes. It also pointed out that some Sub-Centre and Clinic do not even have cotton and bandages. The Press Statement listed out the names of 11 (eleven) Sub-Centres and Clinics and further stated that their pressing needs, such as Refrigerator, Steel Almirah, Book shelf, etc. are provided from the MLA Fund. It further appealed the government to give more attention to Health Sub Centre, Health Clinic and Aizawl South Main Centre under Aizawl South-II constituency.**

**2.6.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.6.2022 conveyed best wishes to MADC coalition government formed by the Congress and MNF party. It stated that both the Congress and MNF, in spite being at loggerheads on several occasions, have the same system and similar goal and hence, their coalition is considered to be apt and did not come as much surprise.

****3.6.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.6.2022 highlighted that ZPM Planning Department organized ZPM Campaign Strategy Development Workshop at Tourist Lodge, Chaltlang, Aizawl, today. Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President led the programme and Pu Lalliansawta, President, delivered a keynote address wherein he has stated that ZPM is preparing to bring in better governance. He urged the members present to remember that ZPM is committed to the following 7 (seven) objectives of the party, which includes formation of people's government and new system, collective leadership both in the party and government, to strive for administrative unification of all Zo-ethnic tribes and to set up the kingdom of God in the State's administration/governance.**

****6.6.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion on 6.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their party office, Treasury Square, Aizawl and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Delivering a speech, Pu Zaithanzama, MLA pointed out that farmers used to bring their problems to the notice of the government in recent times, whereas, it will be the other way round under the 'New System' as the government will ask the farmers about their problems. He also expressed regret about the recent seizures of local made grape wines by the government. He also highlighted about his recent visit to various educational institutions under his Aizawl West III Constituency and stated that youths and students have ample knowledge and wisdom to compete with other States to enter into Central Service and it is the 'Education System' that is responsible. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party on the same day.**

**10.6.2022**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.6.2022 stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, inaugurated Ramhlun Venglai YMA Meeting Room and Mizo Upa Pawl Building, both constructed using MLA Fund, this morning and at noon. Delivering a speech, the MLA expressed gratitude that MLA Fund is being fruitfully utilized for the welfare of the people and the community. He also stated that elders are the treasure of the society. The MLA was accompanied by ZPM Aizawl North-II Block leaders.

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.6.2022 appealed the government to distribute school uniform at free of cost to students as the on-going plan to introduce common school uniform will bring burden to the students and parents. It further stated that even if school uniforms are to be freely distributed, the supplier should be selected through open tender and not restricted tender. It urged Pu Lalchhandama, Education Minister, not to be pre-occupied with trivial matters and to rather improve and reform the education system.
****13.6.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.6.2022 highlighted about the inauguration of culvert constructed at Pi Sumi lane, Republic Veng, Aizawl using MLA Fund by Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA, the same day. Delivering a speech, the MLA expressed gratitude to the workers for carrying out the work with zeal and love for the locality and the State, and not for financial gain.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters held a devotion under the guidance of Upa FP Lalrindika, ZPM Adviser on 13.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at ZPM office, Aizawl, and around 60 (sixty) members were present. Delivering a speech, Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA, stated that Mizoram need a Chief Minister who has a sound vision and he invited the people to think carefully in order to have such kind of leader. He also pointed out that electric power generation and good roads are the pressing needs of the State. He further stated that those responsible for recent collapse of Lengpui Airport went scot-free; a person who was stripped of his tribal certificate was registered as Class-I Contractor and it appears as if laws have no meaning in Mizoram. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 13.6.2022 highlighted that Pu Lalchhuanthanga, Aizawl South-II MLA, attended the Green Mizoram Day 2022 programme organized by Aizawl College today. Delivering a speech, the MLA highlighted the need to look after and care for tree saplings planted in the State. The PR stated that 100 (one hundred) tree saplings were planted by students and teachers of Aizawl College in observance of Green Mizoram Day 2022.

**16.6.2022 :**

(a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.6.2022 highlighted that Bungkawn Vengthar Branch YMA celebrated YMA Day cum felicitation of HSLC and HSSLC successful candidates at a function held last evening at Bungkawn Vengthar YMA Hall and Pu VL Zaithanzama, Aizawl West-III MLA, graced the occasion as Chief Guest. Delivering a speech, the Chief Guest stated that brave leaders makes brave nation and a nation loses its territory when leaders lack courage. He also pointed out the need to emulate the Israelis' determination and courage in defending their nation and religion.

(b) ZPM Thalai/Youth Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.6.2022 stated that the plan to avail Rs.1000 lakhs loan from Asian Development Bank to cover the financial problems face in Mizoram State Health Care Scheme is similar to pulling down one side of a wall in order to cover the other side. In this regard, it alleged that the present MNF government has failed in financial management, just like the previous Congress government. It also expressed surprise that there are more than Rs.70 crores pending bills under the Healthcare Scheme.

**17.6.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters called a Press Conference on 17.6.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and around 20 (twenty) persons including 11 (eleven) media persons were present. A Press Statement of Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, President ZPM Thalai Headquarters was issued which highlighted that the people of Mizoram are surprised over the act of distribution of SEDP application form and selection of beneficiaries by some MNF Units. It stated that Rs.700 crores allocated for SEDP in the current financial year is not a party fund and hence, ruling party Unit cannot utilize as their own as it is public money. It considered such act as suppression of democracy and such being the case, it demanded the government to distribute SEDP out of party fund. It also alleged that such act of utilization of public money as party fund has happened since the days of the Congress government and it considered it to be hurdle in the way of development.

**20.6.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.6.2022 highlighted that Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA, graced felicitation programme organized for successful students of HSLC and HSSLC by Bethlehem Vengthlang Branch the same evening at Bethlehem Vengthlang YMA Hall as Chief Guest. It highlighted his speech wherein the MLA encouraged the students present to strive hard to enter into civil services.

(b) In another Press Release issued on 18.6.2022, ZPM General Headquarters highlighted that Pu Lalchhuanthanga, Aizawl South-II MLA, inaugurated a new building constructed for Govt. Primary School at Salem Veng, Aizawl using MLA Fund.

(c) ZPM Legislature Party issued a Press Statement on 18.6.2022 wherein it expressed serious view over the environmental damages brought about by road construction works undertaken by the National Highway Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) in various parts of the State, especially due to indiscriminate muck dumping. It stated that ecosystem of the State suffered due to lack of monitoring on their works by the State government. It further demanded that the Infrastructure Development Board established by the government on 29.7.2020 under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister performs its assigned tasks and take concrete and speedy actions.

(d) ZPM General Headquarters held party devotion under the guidance of Pu R. Lalthanmawia, Secretary on 20.6.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. and around 50 (fifty) members were present. Addressing the gathering, Dr. Kenneth Chawngliana, Ex-MLA, Vice-President, alleged that the MNF government has failed in enforcement of laws and more serious problems are somehow avoided merely due to the goodness of the people. He also expressed regret for having a government afraid to take concrete decisions and one that collects the opinion of various groups to shelter itself. He also invited the people to rebuild the State with a people's government and new system. A Press Release in this regard was issued by the party.


(e) ZPM Thalai in its Press Release issued on 20.6.2022 stated that the law made by the Congress government in 2014 which permitted a non-tribal to become a contractor in Mizoram and appointment of Kamrul Islam Lasker (Kamlova Chhangte) as Class-I contractor by the present MNF government are equally harmful for the Mizo nation. ZPM Thalai believed that there is someone behind Kamrul who reap the profits out of his contract works.

**21.6.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 21.6.2022 highlighted that ZPM leaders, viz., Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA, Secretary ZPM Legislature Party; Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member and other members of Media &amp; Publicity Deptt. held an interaction with Pu Bowman, PWD Engineer-in-Chief, yesterday and enquired how Kamrul became a Class I Contractor. They requested the E-in-C to make corrigendum on the notification issued for appointment of Contractors as the same comes under 'Rules for Enlistment of Contractors in Mizoram, PWD, 2014' and not the 'Mizoram Contractor Rules, 2014'. It also stated that information was sought under RTI Act to the E-in-C, PWD on 1.3.2022 concerning construction works of KR Construction/ Kamlova Chhangte and as per information received so far by the party, there is no information about payment of tax (tax deducted at source) as a non-tribal and Permanent Account Number (PAN) was not provided by Kamlova in his work documents.

**22.6.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 22.6.2022 compared the MNF government's rule with that of the heyday of Bihar under Lalu Prasad and this can be seen from the recent shuffling of portfolios of Secretaries under the Government of Mizoram. It stated that the Chief Minister apparently placed small departments under the Chief Secretary as a punitive action and it asked whether it was done as the latter gets in the way of unhindered issuance of restricted tenders.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its statement issued on 22.6.2022 stated that an unfounded account about Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva, ZPM Vice President went viral in various social media platforms and in this regard, it clarified that Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva has requested to retire from the post of the Vice President and other responsibilities in the party due to his preoccupation in their private school. It stated that ZPM General Headquarters Office Bearers after careful consideration accepted his request to retire from his responsibility in the party's sub-committee. However, Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva accepted the request made by ZPM Val Upa Council and agreed to continue to hold the post of the Vice President.

**24.6.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.6.2022 highlighted that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North II MLA, graced as Chief Guest 'Felicitation-cum-Fresher's Social' programme organized by Public Higher Secondary School, Ramhlun Venglai today. The Chief Guest congratulated all successful students, Principal and teachers on their hard work. He also encouraged the students to concentrate on their studies and to pursue their studies so as to be able to stand on their own.

****27.6.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 27.6.2022 stated that ZPM Tuirial West Block Political Training was held today at Awithangpa Hall, Kawnpui, Kolasib District. Pu Tlangkhuma, President ZPM Tuirial West Block presided the training and delivering a speech at the function, Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President stated that the new system means when they say 'ZPM will enforce the law of the land' and alleged the state government of not awarding any punishment to law violators. It also stated that Pu Phairothanga, ZPM General Secretary &amp; Resource Person at the function stated that ZPM will prioritize inclusive development and necessary action will be taken in this regard.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 27.6.2022 stated that ZPM Party Devotion was held today and Pu J. Laldinliana, Adviser presided the function. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Vanlalhruaia, PAC Member stated that the state government was led alternatively by the two parties' viz., MNF and Congress and the state's condition of today is not satisfactory. He also stated that finding a way for permanent settlement of inter-state border issues should be prioritized and expected leaders of ZPM to be capable of lifting the state into a higher position.

****28.6.2022 :** ZPM Legislature Party called a Press Conference on 28.6.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA &amp; Secretary, ZPM Legislature Party led the Press Conference and 20 (twenty) media persons attended. During the press conference, a Press Statement was issued which stated that it is found that a large sum of money was not reflected in the Budget Document as per the RTI information supplied to Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA by Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India. It also stated they are suspicious as the money could be spent for other purpose, if it was kept in separate head of account and requested the state government to clarify the following:**

 (i) Rs.9,300 lakhs which was not reflected in Annual Financial Statement  2022-2023 as only Rs.4500 lakhs was reflected while Rs.13800 lakhs  (Rs.4500 lakhs + Rs.9,300 lakhs) was received from 15th Finance  Commission during 2020-2021 for Urban Local Body (ULB) and Rural  Local Body (RLB).
 (ii) Rs.20,000 lakhs which was not reflected in the Annual Financial  Statement 2022-2023 while Rs.49,999 lakhs (Rs.20,000 lakhs +  Rs.29,999 lakhs) was received from the Central government as Special  Assistance for Capital Expenditure (50 years interest free loan).

 In view of the above, it urged Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram who also holds Finance portfolio to carefully supervise the budget.

**1.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 1.7.2022 stated that ZPM Tawi West Block organized Political Training at Thingsulthliah Cluster Resource Centre today and Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President and Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA attended the programme. Delivering a speech, Pu K. Sapdanga stated that ZPM will utilize the strength of Mizo youths and those who are capable of actually performing works will be fielded as Candidates.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 1.7.2022 stated that Ramthar North Branch YMA, Library Sub Committee, organized a Career Guidance Programme and Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA, graced the function as Chief Guest. It stated that the MLA had donated Rs.3 lakhs for setting up of Ramthar North Library on earlier occasion and he also announced that books worth Rs.50,000/- will be donated to better equip the library.

(c) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.6.2022 alleged that the Congress and MNF governments refused to utilized the oil depot set up at Vairengte by the then PC Ministry in 1982 under the Emergency Crash Scheme. It also demanded the present MNF government to fulfil its plan of revamping oil depot at Vairengte as well as the announcement made by the Supply Minister for setting up of a new oil depot.

****4.7.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters held a party devotion on 4.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their party office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. The devotion was led by Pu B. Lianhlira, Adviser and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalliansawta, President, spoke about how the party was formed 5 years ago by various groups coming together and even though such group have different characters/traits, they remain united and continue to move forward till date. He also inducted Pu Siabei Solo, ex-Leader of Mara democratic Front and Mara Student's Organisation, from MNF Party into ZPM Party in today's function.**

****5.7.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.7.2022 expressed regret that employees of National Health Mission (NHM) could not receive their salaries for a long period due to refusal by the State government to immediately disburse its 10% State Matching Share even though the Central government has already sanctioned its share of 90%. It blamed the Health Minister for the above situation and considered him unfit to hold the post if he has no courage to stand for NHM employees in front of the Chief Minister.**

****7.7.2022:** Dr. Vanlalthlana, Secretary, ZPM Legislature Party, issued a statement today, i.e., 7.7.2022 which stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Legislature Party Leader, was included in the tentative programme made in connection with Pu Droupadi Murmu, NDA Presidential Candidate, visit to Aizawl. Upon learning his inclusion in the programme, he immediately informed BJP State Vice President that the programme is not appropriate for him to attend and to delete his name from the tentative programme as he would not attend the same. It expressed regret over dissemination of a tentative programme with the aim of tarnishing the image of other. It also stated that ZPM Legislature has already decided on how to cast their vote in the Indian Presidential Election.**

****8.7.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.7.2022 expressed regret that Mizoram has transformed into a land where law breakers lives freely. It stated that the incident of burning of areca nut, believed to be illegally imported, at the outskirt of Zamuang for the second time the day before, i.e., 7.7.2022 clearly shows that illegal areca nut business is still going on and the government has no real intention to stop the illegal business. It also stated that ZPM stands for the farmers and it demanded the government to immediately solve the problems faced by areca growers of Hachhek constituency.**

****11.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.7.2022 highlighted that a Political Training was organized by ZPM Aizawl South-I the same day at B.S Farm, Falkland Veng, Aizawl, and Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader; Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA and Pi R. Lalawmpuii, AMC Ward No.XVI Councillor, delivered speeches. Pu Lalduhoma pointed out that people now wants to set up a good government, a people's government with a new system. The PR also stated that he inducted 346 (three hundred forty six) new voters into the party fold at the said Political Training programme.**

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.7.2022 highlighted that pamphlets were distributed at Zemabawk Bazar, Thuampui Bazar and Bawngkawn the same morning as a part of its ongoing 'ZORAM CHHANCHHUAH' (Save Mizoram) Project campaign.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion under the guidance of Pu JK Dawngzuala, ZPM Secretary, on 11.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at ZPM Party Office and around 50 (fifty) members were present. Delivering a speech, Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva, ZPM Vice-President, stated that it is often heard from the Church altars and political platform about the high prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS, corruption, etc. in the State and yet, is the various ongoing developmental projects, majestic Churches, beautiful societal life, and stories of successful persons that give him hope. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.

****13.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 13.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, is presently on tour to Champhai and its surrounding areas and public meetings held yesterday and today at Tuipui, Ruantlang and Zotlang were greatly appreciated by the public. The ZPM Leader stated that ZPM's time is arriving and they are ready to form the government with the support of God and the people. He also said that one has to enter into the field in order to transform and rebuild the State.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 13.7.2022 highlighted that Pi C. Lalchhandami, AMC Ward III Councillor, today inaugurated a public urinal constructed by MHIP Ramhlun Vengthar Branch under ODF + Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban). Delivering a speech, the Councillor spoke about the importance of having clean public urinals for having a clean city and it is everyone's duty to play their part.

**14.7.2022 :** (a) Pu Lalduhoma, MLA, Leader ZPM, issued a statement on 14.7.2022 concerning the employees under NHM. It stated that there are more than 2000 (two thousand) NHM employees in Mizoram, employed by the Central to ease the burden of the States. Such NHM employees are to be gradually at the hands of the States and almost all the States in India have now regularized their services. However, not a single NHM employee has been regularized in Mizoram and recommendations submitted by the Study Group have been kept under wraps. It stated that they have no other option but to resort to strike. It also stated that 60% of employees under the Health Department are NHM employees and medical care and treatment of patients could not go properly in their absence. It further stated that the government threaten them with removal and it demanded the government to immediately solve their problems.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 14.7.2022 highlighted that Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President and Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, are presently on tour to Hachhek Constituency and held an interactions with betel nut growers of the area. It highlighted the speech of Pu K. Sapdanga wherein he has stated that the purpose of their visit is to show the priority and concern given to the farmers by ZPM Party, as well as to hear their problems. He also said that the hardworking will prosper if ZPM comes to power and agriculture &amp; allied sector will be given high priority.

**15.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.7.2022 stated that Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, visited Thaidawr Tlang, Zampui Hill Range, and held interactions with leaders of Mizo Convention (MC) at the residence of Raja Hrangvunga, Sabual and Hill Crest Medical Center, Behliangchhip. Pu K. Sapdanga pointed out in his speech that the geographical map of India place Thaidawr Tlang inside the territory of Mizoram and yet it is difficult to understand why the Tourism Department of Tripura takes initiatives at the area. The PR also stated that Mizo Convention Leaders expressed their desire for the Mizoram government to take steps to solve the Thaidawr Tlang issue and initiate talks with the Tripura government. As per the MC Leaders, Thaidawr Tlang is being treated as a part of their territory by the Tripura government as the area was never cared for by the Mizoram government.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 15.7.2022 highlighted about the visit of Champhai Grape Winery by Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM, today. Pu Lalduhoma, during his interaction with leaders of Champhai Grape Growers Society, pointed out that the Food Safety and Standard Authority of India declared grape as food item and as such, Winery is considered as food processing unit. He also said that grape plantation was started in Mizoram at the initiative of the government. He further expressed regret over the problems faced by the grape growers and also the death of Pi Lalhriatpuii.

(c) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 15.7.2022 alleged that it is unfortunate that the PWD Department which is being look after by Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister, is in need of co-supervision by an NGO. It also expressed regret to have a government that could not take steps without the Church and NGOs since the beginning of Covid-19 pandemic and it appealed the government to properly and courageously enforce the rule of law without needing the vigil of the Church and NGOs.
**18.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 16.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM, continued his tour of Champhai and its surrounding areas and public meeting held at Champhai Kanan, Bethelkawn, Kelkang and Dilkawn were greatly appreciated by the people. Delivering speeches in such meeting, Pu Lalduhoma pointed out their intention to form a People's government rather than a Party government. He also said that they will immediately tackle corruption when they come to power and the Lok Ayukta will be strengthened.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 16.7.2022 highlighted that Pu Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-I MLA, inaugurated the newly constructed Zotui Anganwadi Centre Building, funded by CDPO-ICDS, MLA Fund and contributions by the general public.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion on 18.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their Party Office, Republic Veng, Aizawl, and around 60 (sixty) members were present. The programme was led by Pu LT. Tluanga, Adviser, and Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM, inducted 3 (three) persons into their party fold. Pu Lalchhuanthanga, Aizawl South-II MLA, delivered a speech about Zoram Medical College (ZMC) wherein he expressed concern that ZMC might deteriorate under the present MNF government. He pointed out that ZMC is not yet recognized by the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the existing students may not be able to pursue higher courses after they passed out from the college. He also expressed concern that the college might not be able to fulfil the various norms set by the NMC for granting recognition, particularly norms on Faculty Members. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.

****20.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters submitted a written petition to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram on 20.7.2022, requesting to take steps to prevent any further activities inside Mizoram territory at Thaidawr Tlang, Mamit district by the Tripura government and to take steps to protect the territory of the State. It stated that Tripura government is intending to construct a tower at the said hill and has placed construction materials at the area. It further stated that the move was staunchly opposed by Mizos of Jampui hills (Mizo Convention) and has brought their problems to the notice of the Chief Minister of Mizoram.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 20.7.2022 highlighted that Pu C. Lalsawivunga, Aizawl South-I MLA, gave wheelchair and commode to Republic Veng and Bethlehem Venglai for use by needy patients of the localities. He also inaugurated Bethlehem Vengthlang YMA Committee Room, constructed using MLA Fund at the cost of Rs.14 lakhs.

****21.7.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued 21.7.2022 demanded Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister &amp; Finance Minister, to immediately announce the real financial condition of the State as it appears from the Finance Commissioner's statement that the State is heading into financial crunch. It considered the government's failure in financial management to be the main reason for the fiscal problems of the State.**

****25.7.2022 :** (a)ZPM General Headquarters held party devotion on 25.7.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their party office and around 70 (Seventy) members were present. Pu F. Rodingliana, Consultant, delivered a speech and Pu Lalliansawta, President, inducted Pu H. Zorempuia (Joint Secretary of MNF Party General Headquarters who has recently quit the MNF party) into ZPM party. Delivering a speech, Pu F. Rodingliana stated that ZPM has made necessary adjustment and is standing firm to establish the kingdom of God and to work as per His wishes. Pu H. Zorempuia also pointed out in his speech that the present government leaders could not take any concrete steps in any field, whether it's the boundary issue, development or Health Care. He also stated that the present MNF government is not a 'Pro-active Government' and he also believe that a government which is called as 'Sri Lanka of the East' and 'One man Band Ministry' will not be able to distribute SEDP. A press Release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 23.7.2022 requested the MNF government not to loan CSS Fund for revenue expenditure purposes. It also expressed regret that the State finance will suffer due to disbursement of CSS Fund and it considered to be an indication of the failure of the government in financial management.

****28.7.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 28.7.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, who is currently campaigning at Tuichang Constituency, visited Tualte and Hmungcheng and held public meeting today. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalduhoma stated that the two political parties that have been in power have done their best and yet the State could not attain its rightful place as their top leader are more pre-occupied with their personal and party benefits. He also mentioned that entrepreneurship will be given due importance by ZPM and they will set up a 'people's government' and not 'party government'.**

****29.7.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.7.2022 highlighted the speech made by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, in a public meeting at Khawzawl Zuchhip Veng and Khualen, both under Tuichang Constituency. The ZPM Leader welcomed the release of CSS Funds by the government to concern departments/implementing agencies and at the same time, they came to know that the government is intending to take back certain amount of the fund released and he expressed their intention to closely look into the matter and will not remain silent if such thing happens. He also visited Khawzawl District Hospital this morning and held interaction with doctors and staffs of the hospital wherein he has alleged that the MNF government did not allocate enough fund in the Budget for development of health and education sectors.**

(b) ZPM Youth in its Press Release issued on 29.7.2022 demanded for resignation of Pu Zoramthanga from the post of the Finance Minister due to his failure in financial management. It alleged that the present financial crunch on account of the Central government's direction for release of CSS Fund and the looming prospect ofgovernment employees unlikely to receive their salaries before 15th August, 2022, depicts the failure of the Chief Minister as a Finance Minister. It also alleged that some MsLA, in their attempt to earn the goodwill of the Chief Minister, are covering up the actual financial crisis. Further, if there is no real financial crisis, it demanded for distribution of SEDP to 60000 families during the month of July, 2022 as was promised by Pu Tawnluia, Dy. CM.

**01.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai/Youth Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.7.2022 highlighted that pamphlets were distributed at Aizawl Main Market area the same morning as a part of its ongoing 'ZORAM CHHANCHHUAH' (Save Mizoram) project in order to set up a people's government that will actually fight corruption. It expressed regret that people depending on the Main Market for their livelihood are facing problems due to diversion of funds earmarked for construction of the Market Building under K. Deposit (Civil Deposit).

(b) ZPM Thalai/Youth Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 1.8.2022 highlighted about the sub-standard materials used for construction of Vanbawng Sub Centre and it considered as utter disregard of the people. It asked whether the constituency MLA Pu Lalrinliana Sailo received any financial benefits from the said construction.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion on 1.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their Party Office, Republic Veng, Aizawl under the guidance of Pu Lalthazuala Rawite, General Secretary ZPM, and around 70 (seventy) members were present. Delivering a speech, Col. Lalramhluna, Consultant stated that the reason for his entry into politics was due to his conviction that religious leaders of the State need to backup political parties.

**02.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters Research Wing organized 'Workshop on Vegetable Market' on 2.8.2022 @ Tourist Lodge, Chaltlang under the guidance of Prof. H. Lalramnghinglova, Chairman, Research Wing and Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President, delivered speeches. Pu Lalliansawta stated that agricultural policies followed by Mizoram governments often faced problems in marketing of agricultural products and it is due to this reason that ZPM formulated its policy based on research. Pu K. Sapdanga welcomed the in-depth study conducted by the Party on agricultural marketing and he look forward to taking steps for the welfare of the farmers after the Party comes to power. A press release in this regard was issued by the party.
**3.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.8.2022 stated that Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, attended 'Workshop on Vegetable Market' organized by ZPM Research Wing on 2.8.2022 @ Chaltlang Tourist Lodge. Delivering a speech, Pu Lalduhoma stated that we need to have a vision before doing anything and that vision has to be research base, sustainable, environment friendly and it should not be detrimental to the society.

**4.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release on 4.8.2022 highlighted the visit of Aizawl Solid Waste Management Centre (SWMC) at Tuirial by ZPM MsLA today. Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader stated that the government negligently dumps huge amounts of waste on the roadside thereby polluting Tuirial river. He also pointed out that Rs.60 lakhs each were given to 5 (five) districts for setting up of SWMC and not a single building has been constructed till date and there is a need to expedite the work to prevent further environmental degradation. He also alleged that the government do not provide dumping grounds to people who need a place to dump their construction and other wastes, and this compels the people to secretly dump their waste at roadsides. Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA also pointed out that the SWMC is being neglected as if it has no caretaker and even the weighbridge is lying non-functional at present. He also said that the purpose of their visit is to give a wakeup call to the government since the waste management procedure at the Centre is posing harm to the river and aquatic animals.

**5.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 5.8.2022 stated that Pi C. Lalchhandami, AMC Ward-III Councillor, visited Ramhlun North Local Council House this morning which was newly renovated with Property Tax Return of Rs.1.6 lakhs and she was received by Ramhlun North LC Chairman and other Members.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 5.8.2022 stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, gave 20 (twenty) chairs each to the 16 (sixteen) Anganwadi Centre under his constituency in a function held today at Ramhlun South Community Hall. He also highlighted the need to reform education and health right from the basic foundation. He also pointed out the need to give due importance to Anganwadi Centres.
(c) Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President, ZPM Thalai Headquarters, called a press conference on 5.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and 15 (fifteen) media persons were present. Dr. C. Lalrammawia highlighted that as per the RTI reply, the government is still owing Rs.66,37,385 to food suppliers of various Covid Care Centres and Quarantine Centres and Rs.29,93,000 to Covid-19 Volunteers. He also said that as per the Assembly Question and Answer, the government did not give assistance to Covid-19 patients out of the State Budget and he questioned the whereabouts of funds contributed into the CM Relief Fund by the Church, NGOs and individuals. He further requested the government to clear the above stated outstanding debts.

****8.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters held its Party Devotion on 8.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their Party Office, Aizawl and around 80 (eighty) members were present. The devotion was led by Pu Lalbuanga Sailo, Adviser and Pu Lalthansanga (Chatea), Ex-MLA, Vice President ZPM General Headquarters, inducted 49 (forty nine) new members into their party fold. Delivering a speech, Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA, stated that the government did not spend even one percent of fund from the State Budget to fight Covid-19. He also said that the money spent for renovation of Lengpui Airport is more than the budget of nearly 30 (thirty) departments under the government and the people ought to know that the State Budget is used for making money. He further stated that the State's debt was increased by Rs.4700 crores during the 10-year rule of Congress, whereas it will increase by Rs.4500 crores during the 4-year rule of the MNF government, and the people need to raise their voice. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.**

****10.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.8.2022 stated that ZPM Aizawl South-II Political Training was held the same day at Tourist Lodge, Chaltlang, Aizawl and it was also attended by Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader; Pu Lalchhuanthanga, MLA; Baryl Vanneihsangi, Councillor and other leaders of ZPM General Headquarters. Delivering a speech, the ZPM Leader stated that 'corruption control' will be the first task if the party comes to power and Lok Ayukta that can investigate even up to the Chief Minister will be set up. Pu Lalchhuanthanga, Aizawl South-II MLA, also mentioned in his speech that Aizawl South-II Constituency will be a daunting challenge for his opponents in the next 2023 General Election as the people are happy with the way in which the MLA Fund are being utilized and how a new system has been adopted to bring in development.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 9.8.2022 highlighted the speech made by Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA about the financial status of the State at the Party's Devotion held the previous day, i.e., 8.8.2022. He highlighted that the PWD which is under the Chief Minister was shown undue favouritism in Budget allocation for the financial gain of few people. He also pointed out how the State has been borrowing huge amount of funds year after year. He further stated that sports infrastructures have been given undue importance under the Aizawl Smart City Project by the present MNF government.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 10.8.2022 highlighted that ZPM Aizawl City Block held its Joint Executive Committee Meeting today at the Central Hall of Venghlui, Aizawl. Delivering a speech at the meeting, Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, stated that the people are having high regard for ZPM to set up a good government. He also said that Val Upa Council (VUC) will not control the government; it will rather keep close watch on the government to prevent it from going astray. The Joint Meeting passed the following resolutions:

 i) Expressed confidence in ZPM leaders appointed by the Val Upa  Council.

 ii) Expressed support to the steps taken by ZPM leaders for setting up of  people's government with a new system.

 iii) Welcomed the growth of ZPM across the State and invited the people to  join the party.

 iv) Appealed all political parties not to drag the people into poverty through  promise of freebies and other handouts as it corrupts the minds of the  people.

 v) ZPM believes that if funds received from the Central and state own tax  revenues are managed carefully and properly, there would be enough  fund to pay salaries of government employees. In this regard, the Chief  Minister should accept his failure and should hand over the Finance  Department portfolio to more competent and younger leader.

**16.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters released its 'Sustainable Development &amp; Reform Policy (SDRP)' at a function held on 16.8.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Vanapa Hall, Aizawl and around 1500 members were present. The function was led by Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President and Dr. KC Lalmalsawmzauva, G.S i/c Policy etc., explained about the SDRP. Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader also delivered a speech in today's programme. Dr. KC Lalmalsawmzauva stated that SDRP is based on research and is meant for the hardworking people and land reforms will be undertaken through progressive tax. A press release in this regard was also issued by the party.

****18.8.2022 :** Zoram People Movement (ZPM) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.8.2022 stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North II MLA and authorities of Mizoram State Sports Council (MSSC) conducted spot visit of Ramhlun Sports Complex today. It also stated that Basketball Court and Wrestling Hall were already renovated using his MLA fund and personal expense. During the spot verification, the MLA expressed his intention to renovate Boxing Hall and Weightlifting Hall using his MLA fund, and authorities of MSSC also expressed their intention to take necessary action for renovation of the stated sport complex. It further stated that the MLA and authorities of MSSC were accompanied by leaders of local Sport Associations and USAM.**

**19.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 19.8.2022 alleged that police personnel of 3rd IR Battalion deployed in Assam are facing problems due to the government's negligence to clear pending medical bills at GNRC Hospital, Guwahati. It stated that the hospital authorities no longer allow them to avail medical treatment on credit basis and it alleged that the problem arises due to the inefficiency of the Home Minister of Mizoram. It further demanded the government to take necessary action to solve the said problems of the police personnel.

(b) Pu Ngursailova, General Secretary, ZPM Vigilance Department and 7 (seven) other ZPM leaders on 19.8.2022 visited ongoing renovation works of Primary School at Falkawn and Melriat being carried out using fund received from NABARD. The team opined that the said works are not being carried out satisfactorily and not commensurate with the funds sanctioned for the work.
****22.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters held Party Devotion on 22.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at ZPM Office, Republic Veng. Pu Lalngheta, ZPM Adviser presided the function and around 70 (seventy) members attended. During the function, Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM inducted Pu JH Hmangaihthanga, Chanmari, Aizawl into their party. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu C. Laltanpuia, Treasurer, ZPM General Headquarters stated that ZPM Party's wave is blowing strongly in rural areas than urban areas. He also stated that the position of Chief Minister and Party Leader could not be held by the same person under ZPM and the same will be helpful in preventing autocratic style of leadership. He further stated that our attitude towards the Myanmar refugees should be positive. Various tour reports were also given by Siaha Tour team led by Pu Lalsawivunga, MLA; Tuikum constituency tour team led by Pu Lalthansanga, Ex-MLA and Minority Department, who visited Rajivnagar, Mamit District.A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

****24.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 24.8.2022 highlighted that Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, and other ZPM leaders, who are currently touring various villages under East Tuipui Constituency, organized political training cum induction of new voters programme at Khawbung Zawlbuk last evening. Delivering a speech, Pu K Sapdanga stated that ZPM will stand firm on its promises and will render utmost efforts to fulfil the expectations of the people on the Party. Altogether, 39 (thirty nine) new voters were inducted into the party by ZPM Working President.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters issued a Press Release on 24.8.2022 which stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, Aizawl North-II MLA, today handed over Computer and Printer purchased out of MLA Fund to 12 (twelve) government schools under his constituency. He also handed over Laptop to 3 (three) students who were among the Top -10 in the High Schools and Higher Secondary School Examinations, 2022. In addition, the MLA also handed over the list of 8 (eight) schools that requires renovation using MLA Fund to Aizawl North Development Society (ANDS).

****25.8.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 25.8.2022 highlighted that Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, and other ZPM leaders, who are currently touring various villages under East Tuipui Constituency, organized public meeting at Farkawn YMA Hall on 24.8.2022. Delivering a speech, Pu K Sapdanga stated that ZPM flagship policy is the people. He said that the people will be lifted up through their policy which was announced recently. The PR also highlighted the speech of Pu Tlangkhuma, PAC Member and Er. Lalhmingliana, General Secretary. It also stated that political training was organized today at Khuangleng village in which Pu K Sapdanga inducted 144 (one hundred forty four) new members of ZPM East Tuipui North Block into the party.**

****26.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 26.8.2022 stating that leaders of ZPM General Headquarters continue their tour of eastern Mizoram and East Tuipui ZPM North Block organized a programme at Khuangleng yesterday in which 144 (one hundred forty four) new members were inducted into the party. Similar programme was also held today at Champhai Dinthar and Zote wherein Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President, delivered a speech. Pu K. Sapdanga stated that politics that goes wrong affected everyone whereas right politics benefits everybody. He also said that the State and the people thirst and long for a good government.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 26.8.2022 stated that Aizawl West-III ZPM Block organized a Political Training today under the guidance of Pu Lalduhoma, ZPM Leader, at Hmingliani Dining Hall, Mission Vengthlang, Aizawl and Pu VL Zaithanzama, constituency MLA; Pi Ramthanzauvi, AMC Ward XIV Councillor and other leaders of ZPM General Headquarters attended the programme.

(c) ZPM Thalai called a Press Conference under the guidance of Pu J Lalramnghaka, ZPM Thalai General Secretary on 26.8.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and 9 (nine) press persons were present. A Press Statement of Pu J Lalramnghaka was issued wherein it criticized the requirement of prior approval of the Revenue Minister for buying House Pass Application Form. It stated that only those who were given permission by the Revenue Minister can acquire the application form and such practise has no legal basis and it considered it to be unnecessary show of power and a burden for the people. It demanded Pu Lalruatkima, Revenue Minister, to stop causing unnecessary burden to the public and to explain why he confer himself such power without any proper legal support.

****29.8.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 27.8.2022 stated that leaders of Tuichang ZPM North Block and Tawi East Block organized reception programme at Khawzawl Vengthar and Keifang for Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President and his team currently on tour of eastern parts of the State. Delivering a speech, Pu K Sapdanga stated that the State thirst and yearn to have good governance. He also invited the people to use ZPM as an instrument to save the State.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters held its party devotion on 29.8.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at their party office, Aizawl and around 80 (eighty) members were present. The programme was led by Pu R. Buanthanga, Adviser delivered a speech wherein he has pointed out that ZPM is taking steps to bring in not only people's government and a new system, but also to govern the State according to God's will. Pu C Dothanga, ZPM Consultant also delivered a speech and various teams/groups that recently went on tour gave their reports in today's programme. A Press Release in this regard was also issued by the party.
**31.8.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 31.8.2022 alleged that the government is not ready to enforce the new MV (Amendment) Act, 2019 while the public is getting ready for it. It further alleged that vehicle pollution test facility is available only in Aizawl and Lunglei and it asked whether the government wants the people to follow the rules or is bent to levy fines. It further stated that if the government intends to enforce pollution test strictly, it should explain how old government vehicles that emits huge amount of smokes managed to clear pollution test. It also requested the government not to enforce the new Act till such time pollution test facility is available in all the districts and test facilities that could cater the needs of the people of Aizawl are being set up.

****2.9.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.9.2022 stated that leaders of ZPM General Headquarters led by Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM, who were on tour to Dampa constituency held a public meeting at Rajivnagar, Tuipuibari, Damparengpui, Hruaitluang and Khawhnai villages and inducted 86 (eighty six) new members into their party. Delivering a speech at function, Pu Lalduhoma stated that they recently released 'ZPM policy' and the same would lead to efficient and profitable farming within the state. He also stated that if ZPM is in power, a proper rate will be fixed for farm harvested products, and necessary action will be taken for proper marketing of their products within and outside the state. He also stated that the present financial condition of the state government depicted failure on financial management by the state government. It further stated that new Unit and Zonu Unit were set up at Rajivnagar and a new Unit at Undermanik village.**

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 2.9.2022 stated that the Council of Minister Meeting held on 30.8.2022 decided to allow production and marketing of grape wine after occurrence of mass seizure of grape wines as per the direction of Chief Minister and Excise Minister on 27.5.2022 which caused distress to the farmers and dealers, and even claimed lives. It also urged the MNF led government to be more concern towards interest of the farmers. It further urged the Chief Minister and Excise Minister to have a firm opinion on grape wine and not to engage in any activities which would cause distress to the farmers.

****5.9.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 3.9.2022 stated that leaders of ZPM General Headquarters led by Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM, who were on tour to Dampa constituency held a Public Meeting the same day at West Phaileng Bazar Shed and Rawpuichhip Bazar, and Lallen Community Hall on the evening of 2.9.2022. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalduhoma stated that the party who promised to distribute Rs. 3 lakhs prior to 2018 election distributed only Rs. 25,000/- in principle after 4(four) years of ruling the state government and he also stated that they should distribute Rs. 3 lakhs as per their promise. He also stated that ZPM will prioritise general public health and necessary action will be taken for improvement of PHCs/CHCs across the state. It also stated that during the function, he inducted 247 (two hundred forty seven) new members from West Phaileng, Kawnmawi, Chhippui and Rawpuichhip villages into ZPM.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in another Press Release issued on 3.9.2022 stated that 6 (six) ZPM AMC Councillors conducted spot verification of the various developmental works undertaken using ward fund under their respective constituencies in pursuance of the decision of ZPM AMC Coordination Committee. It also stated that the closing function was held in AMC Ward-VIII and delivering a speech at the function Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM expressed gratitude for judicious used of all development funds for the development of Aizawl city. Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President also delivered a speech.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held Party Devotion on 5.9.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at ZPM Office, Republic. Pu Khualluna Pautu, ZPM Adviser presided the function and around 70 (seventy) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu Lalhmangaiha Sailo, Consultant stated that ZPM has a good Policy, which is implementable for the development of the state. He also stated that through their policy, necessary action will be taken for Land Reforms and sufficiency in production of agriculture and horticulture. He further stated that it is expected that ZPM will win in the next General Election. During the function, Tour reports and VC By-election observation team report were given and as per the report 335 (three hundred thirty five) new members under Dampa constituency, 30 (thirty) new members under Tuikum constituency and 92 (ninety two) new members under West Tuipui constituency were inducted into their party. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****6.9.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued 6.9.2022 stated that Keifang Venglai Village Council By-election was cancelled abruptly in pursuance of the Court Order and expressed regret in this regard. It also stated that the matter of Keifang Venglai Village Council crisis was moved to the Court on 14.7.2022, and even so, the state government has taken necessary action for conduct of by-election for the said village council. Such being the case, residents of Keifang Venglai and all Political Parties were taking all out efforts for the election and the same should go in vain due to improper management of the state government. It further stated that ZPM opined that the said action was taken by the ruling government as they believed not to be able to win in the election.**

(b) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 6.9.2022 stated ZPM Thalai submitted FIR to Lokayukta on 5.4.2022 in connection with alleged misappropriation of fund during the previous Congress Ministry amounting to Rs.113.92 lakhs, which was received from Ministry of DONER for conduct of training in the name of 1,300 (one thousand three hundred) fake government employees' names. In this connection, Lokayukta entrusted ACB to undertake preliminary investigation on 17.8.2022. It further stated that the said incident indicated prevalence of corruption during the previous Congress Ministry and the people of Mizoram considered Congress Party to be in 'That loh Theih lohna Bawm ( A box which will not allow commission of offences)' when they are in opposition.

**7.9.2022 :** ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 6.9.2022 stated that ZPM contested in 10 (ten) seats in the recently concluded VC/LC By-election and secured victory in Ramthar North, Champhai Dinthar, Sialhawk, Khanpui and Baktawng and expressed gratitude in this regard. It congratulated all the winning candidates and stated that ZPM decided not to contest in various seats in different villages and localities in view of their respective village's situation and in this connection, other political parties attacked them and expressed regret in this regard.

****8.9.2022 :** ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 8.9.2022 considered the statement made by Pu Robert Romawia Royte at an induction function organized by Aizawl South I Block MNF held at Bethlehem Vengthlang YMA Hall yesterday, wherein he allegedly stated Pu Lalduhoma inducted more than 40 (forty) new members at Rajiv Nagar and only get 6 (six) votes in the recently concluded By-election as an indication for negligence of telling lies. It also stated that the answer given by Pu Robert Romawia Royte to Pu C. Lalsawivunga, MLA in the ongoing Assembly Session on 7.9.2022 indicated that all the elections promises within Aizawl South I constituency have not been fulfilled and considered the same as disregard of residents of Aizawl South I constituency.**

****9.9.2022 :** (a) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.9.2022 stated that Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member attended 'Political Training' organized by ZPM Serlui South Block today at Bilkhawthlir VC North Conference Hall, Kolasib District. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga stated that 'The Mizoram Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill, 2022' which was passed yesterday by the State Assembly was moved before the House without prior public consultation. He also stated that the new clause i.e., '75(A) Share of Government on Acquisition of Land' in the said Bill was added so as to get share from any compensation to be received by land owners. It further stated that Pu PC Vanlalhruaia, President, Serlui South Block presided the function and Pi Baryl Vanneihsangi, AMC Councillor also delivered a speech.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 9.9.2022 expressed gratitude for disclosing the condition of the state government before the public due to dedication and hard work rendered by ZPM MsLA during the recently concluded Mizoram Legislative Assembly. It also stated that the questions raised by ZPM MLAs depicted non proper implementation of election promises made prior to 2018 General Election by MNF and negligence of their flagship programme i.e., SEDP. It further expressed regret for conduct of short tenure of Assembly Session, and opined that the session was summoned only for a short duration so as to conceal embarrassment of the MNF government.

****12.9.2022 :** ZPM held its political session on 12.9.2022 @11:00 am at ZPM Gen. Hqrs. Office, Upper Republic, Aizawl. Pu Paul Thangzika, Adviser, ZPM Gen. Hqrs. presided over the function and Pu R. Lallungmuana, Speaker of Hebron Revival Team delivered devotional speech and about 80 (eighty) members attended the function. During the Political session, Pu Lalliansawta, President, ZPM Gen. Hqrs., inducted 37 (thirty seven) people into ZPM party and Hon. Capt. Ngurtaikhuma Sailo of Saikhamakawn addressed the meeting on behalf of the newly inducted members. Pu Lalduhoma, MLA and leader of ZPM also delivered a speech in which he strongly criticised "The Mizoram (Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement) Act 2016" recently introduced at the Assembly Session.**

**13.9.2022 :** (a) On 13.9.2022 @1:30 pm, Entrepreneurship, Youth Empowerment and Development Department of ZPM Thalai Headquarters (ZPM Youth Front) held felicitation function of Pu Lalnghinglova Hmar on his recent election as Executive Member of All India Football Association (AIFA). Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President, ZPM Thalai delivered a speech on behalf of ZPM Thalai and citation was handed over to Pu Lalnghinglova Hmar as a token of their appreciation. Pu Laltanpuia Zote, Vice President, ZPM Thalai presided over the felicitation function and about 50 (fifty) members were present.

(b) ZPM Media &amp; Publicity Department issued a Press Release on 13.9.2022 about the visits of Government Johnson College, Bungkawn, Aizawl by Pu VL Zaithanzama, MLA. The Press Release stated that Aizawl West-III Assembly Constituency MLA has been visiting educational institutions under his constituency starting from Anganwadi and at today's visit, faculty members of the college also reported about their requirements to the MLA.

**14.9.2022:** Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA inaugurated a new Health Clinic building at Ramhlun Sports Complex on 14.9.2022. In his inaugural speech, Dr. Vanlalthlana expressed his gratitude to the Government for opening Health clinic within Aizawl North-II area. The MLA has donated beds, bedside tables, steel almirah and BP and HB monitoring machines to the clinic through his MLA fund and personal contribution. A press release was also issued by ZPM Media Cell in this regard.

**16.9.2022:** Leader of ZPM, Pu Vanlalhlana, MLA inaugurated Refrigerated Mortuary at Chaltlang cemetery, Aizawl on 16.9.2022. Pu Vanlalhlana has reportedly donated as many as Rs.2,00,000/- to Chaltlang Branch YMA for its procurement. In his speech, Pu Vanlalhlana lauded Central YMA for initiating drives against drugs and corruption. He also declared that he will not indulge in corruption while he was in political field. The mortuary building was donated by Pu Vanlalngaihsaka's family. The inaugural function was presided over by Pu Lalhruaitluanga, President, Chaltlang Branch YMA and Pu R. Lalngheta, President CYMA also delivered a speech.

****19.9.2022 :** ZPM held party meeting on 19.9.2022 @11:00 am at their Office, upper republic, Aizawl. Dr. B. Lalramzauva, PAC member presided over the meeting and about 70 (seventy) members attended. During the meeting, party president Pu Lalliansawta inducted 2 persons namely- Pu C. Chalsawithanga, MSS (Rtd.) and Pu R. Lalsangluaia, MCS (Rtd.) both Kulikawn, Aizawl into ZPM. Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President also delivered a speech in which he stated that people who incline to join ZPM are examining the relationship within the party and urged party members to stop spreading rumors on friction within the party. He also asserted that earlier we struggle for independence from India but now we have to strive to free ourselves from MNF and the weapon will be EVM.**

****22.9.2022 :** (a) ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei is scheduled to hold election of its office bearers and Executive Members on 5.10.2022. In this regard, the following persons have filed their nominations to contest against the post as mentioned below:**

 President:  1. Pi Lalrinpuii, Chanmari, Lunglei (incumbent Vice-President,   ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei.)

 2. Pu Lalnuntluanga Sailo, Serkawn, Lunglei (incumbent   Sr. Adviser, ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei.)Vice  President: Pu V. Malsawmtluanga, Serkawn, Lunglei  (incumbent Vice President, ZPM Southern Headquarters,  Lunglei.)

 Treasurer:   1. Pu Lalramliana (Papuia), Salem Veng, Lunglei   (incumbent Treasurer, ZPM Southern Headquarters,  Lunglei.)

 2. Pu C. Lalrinchhana, Zohnuai, Lunglei.

 And as many as 58 candidates have already filed nominations for 30 Executive Member post.

(b) ZPM General Headquarters issued a press release on 22.9.2022 in which they highlighted the visits of Govt. Mission Vengthlang Middle School by Pu VL Zaithanzama, MLA today. During the visit, Pu VL Zaithanzama reportedly donated computer set to the school and he also presented Laptop to Angeline Lalpekhluii of Mission Vengthlang who secured 78 rank (Topper among ST) in Joint Entrance Exam. Pi Ramthanzauvi, Councillor, AMC also accompanied the MLA.

****26.9.2022 :** (a) On 26.9.2022 @11:00 am, ZPM held party meeting at their office, Republic, Aizawl. Pu F. Rodingliana, Consultant, ZPM chaired the meeting and Rev. Dr. H. Lalzarliana gave devotional talk and about 80 members attended. Pu Lalthansanga (Chatea), Ex-MLA &amp; Vice President, ZPM inducted as many as 30 members from Kulikawn, Aizawl into ZPM party and out of 30, 5 inducted members were present. After the Induction function, Pu PL Liandinga, Consultant, ZPM delivered a speech in which he claimed that ZPM will form a Government in the next election and he spoke about the significance and demand of new trend of politics in Mizoram.**

(b) On 24.9.2022 Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM graced "Fresher's Social cum Meritorious Students' Felicitation Programme-2022" organized by Pang Zirlai Pawl (Pang Students Union) as chief guest. The function was held at Central hall, Venghlui and Pu Lalduhoma had donated Rs.20,000/- to PZP. In his speech, Pu Lalduhoma stated that Pang are among the first people who had inhabited Mizoram and also said that corruption is the enemy of the state and invited Pang students to fight corruption.

**30.9.2022 :** On 30.9.2022 @11:30 am, ZPM conducted Tawngtai Retreat (Prayer Retreat) at Tourist Lodge, Chaltlang. The Retreat programme was chaired by Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva, Vice President and Pu F. Rodingliana, Consultant and as many as 80 (eighty) members attended. Pu Lalduhoma, Leader ZPM and Upa C. Zairemmawia, Speaker Dintharlehna Team were the speaker at the Retreat. The Second session of the retreat was held in the afternoon for Secretary, Chief Organisers, Jt. Secretary, Organisers, Dy. Organisers, Reception, Headquarters Zonu and Thalai and AMC Councillors.
****3.10.2022 :** (a) ZPM held party meeting on 3.10.2022 @11:00 am at their office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member delivered a speech wherein he requested party members to give top priority to Mizoram. Today's meeting was presided over by Pu SL Ngursailova Sailo, Gen. Secretary.**

(b) On 3.10.2022, leaders of ZPM Pu Lalduhoma, MLA and Pu K.Sapdanga, ZPM Working President attended ZPM Tawi East Block Political Training held at Keifang Venghlun YMA Zawlbuk. In his speech, Pu K.Sapdanga alleged that Government employees are keeping close watch on politics and they will choose the party who will serve best to them. Pu Lalduhoma also said that the collective leadership in ZPM is the advantage of ZPM.

(c) On 3.10.2022, ZPM issued a press release in which they highlighted about the visits of construction of makeshift hut by Assam at Zophai, Bairabi by leaders of ZPM led by Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, General Secretary, i/c Boundary and Pu Malsawmzuala, President, ZPM Thalai. During the visit Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte alleged that this incident happended due to negligence of MNF Ministry towards Assam border. He also gives compliment to MZP and the people of Bairabi for their initiative on border issues. Leaders of ZPM also visited IR Camp at Zophai.

(d) On 1.10.2022, ZPM Mamit East Block Conference was held at YMA Recreation Centre, Lengpui and ZPM leader, Pu Lalduhoma, MLA attended the Conference as chief guest. In his speech Pu Lalduhoma slammed and alleged that MNF Ministry fails in financial management of the state. Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted as many as 219 members into ZPM.

****06.10.2022 :** Election of office bearers and 30 executive members of ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei was held on 5.10.2022 @10:00 am at Saikuti Hall, Lunglei Venglai. As many as 1115 ZPM members turn out at the election and the following were elected as office bearers of ZPM Southern Headquarters for the term 2022-2024:**

 President : Pi Lalrinpuii, Chanmari, Lunglei 

 Vice President : Pu V. Malsawmtluanga, Serkawn, Lunglei   (Uncontested)

 Treasurer : Pu Lalramliana (Papuia), Salem Veng, Lunglei .

 Introductory Committee for the newly elected office bearers and executive members of ZPM Southern Headquarters was held today at ZPM Office Lunglei under the aegis of Pu Lalthansanga (Chatea), Vice President, ZPM Gen. Headquarters. Pu Lalthansanga handed over certificate of election to the three office bearers and 30 executive members.

**10.10.2022 :** (a) On 10.10.2022 ZPM Thalai Headquarters (ZPM Youth Front) issued a Press Release in which they alleged that the canine squad of Mizoram Police is an extravagance and maintained that Rs.18,40,000/- had been received for this purpose and besides a sum of Rs.4 lakhs had already spend on foods and others for the canine. It stated that the information was received through RTI and further claim that no seizure worthy to mention including narcotic drugs etc. had been made by the canine squad so far.

(b) On 10.10. 2022, ZPM party was held at their office, Republic, Aizawl. Pu Lalthansanga (Chatea), Ex-MLA, Vice President inducted Pu K Laltluangkima, Mission Veng into ZPM party and also delivered a speech. Pu Lalthansanga gave report about the election of office bearers of ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei which he conducted as Returning Officer during last week. Pu R Lalchawia, Secretary presided over today's meeting and about 60 members attended.
**11.10.2022 :** ZPM issued a press release on 11.10.2022 about the visits of Neihdawn and North Khawbung Villages by ZPM leaders, Pu Lalduhoma, MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President and they hold public meeting. During the visit, Pu K. Sapdanga had reportedly inducted as many as 28 members into ZPM at Neihdawn Village. Leaders of ZPM delivered speeches during the meeting.

**12.10.2022** : On 12.10.2022 @11:00 am, Champhai ZPM South Block Conference was held at Champhai Vengthar Community Hall, Champhai. Pu Hrangchalliana, President, ZPM Champhai South Block presided over the conference and about 500 members attended. Leaders of ZPM Pu Lalduhoma MLA, leader ZPM; Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President; Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC; Dr. Lalramzauva, PAC; Pu Thangkhuma, PAC; Pu Lalchhuanmawia, Gen. Secretary, etc. attended the conference. At the conference Pu K. Sapdanga reportedly inducted as many as 430 members into ZPM. Pu K. Sapdanga and Pu Lalduhoma addressed the gathering party members.

**13.10.2022** : (a) Leaders of ZPM, Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President continued their visits of Champhai area on 13.10.2022 and they hold meeting at Zote and Ngur villages. At Zote Pu K. Sapdanga reportedly inducted 14 members into ZPM and at Ngur village Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga also inducted 31 members into ZPM. ZPM issued a Press Release in this regard today.

(b)****ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) led by their Sr. Vice President, Dr. C. Lalrammawia convened a press conference on 13.10.2022 @2:00 pm at Aizawl Press Club and 15 media persons attended. In the press conference Dr. C. Lalrammawia alleged that MNF Ministry has kept pending GP Funds of 1367 pensioners amounting to Rs.2,49,87,07426/- and claimed that the pensioners had informed their grievances to the Hon'ble Union Finance Minister. He accused MNF Ministry of failure in financial management and further alleged MNF of diverting and utilising GP Fund for SEDP. He also urged the MNF Government to pay all the pending GP Funds and Health Care Bills within 2022.
**14.10.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai issued a Press Release on 14.10.2022 in which they urged the Government to immediately release scholarship fund to Mizoram Scholarship Board and distribute to the students immediately. They alleged that Ministry of Tribal Affairs had issued Rs.3590.31 lakhs to Finance Department, Government of Mizoram on 4th October, 2022.

(b) On 14.10.2022 @2:00 pm, Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM Gen. Hqrts. convened a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club with regard to ZPM Vangpui Fehchhuah programme (Autumn Tour) and about 20 media persons attended. Pu Lalliansawta announced that ZPM will conduct Vangpui Fehchhuah in which they will visit 218 villages in Mizoram. 39 (thirty nine) groups have been formed and 170 members are detailed in this programme. They will first visit villages under Mamit, Saitual, Khawzawl, Champhai and Kolasib districts and they will study in details problems being faced by villages. He also stated that they will set up ZPM Unit in villages where ZPM unit does not exist.
(c) Leaders of ZPM led by Pu Lalduhoma MLA continued their tour today at Vapar, Diltlang, Hnahlan, Tualcheng and Selam. During his visits Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted 31 members at Diltlang, 484 members at Hnahlan and 144 members at Tualcheng.

****17.10.2022 :** ZPM Party devotion meeting was held on 17.10.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at ZPM Office. Pu BC Tawna, Secretary ZPM General Headquarters chaired the meeting and around 60 (sixty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President stated that mortgage politics prevent conduct of free and fair election and the same caused burden to the general public by way of hike in taxes etc. He urged the general public to remove such kind of politics through their votes. He also clarified a rumour regarding coalition of ZPM and Congress in the upcoming 2023 General Election and stated that no such initiative was taken at any level by both parties. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

****18.10.2022 :** (a) 8 (eight) ZPM PAC members led by Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga called a Press Conference on 18.10.2022 @ 1:30 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club. During the press conference, a Press Note was issued wherein it stated that it was highlighted in the newspaper that on 15.10.2022, Musa Ahmed, Nilambazar, Karimganj District (who is alleged to be the superior of Abu Majumder) was arrested at Silchar Airport by Assam Police. It also stated that the said arrestee has been enrolled in the electoral roll at Sairang Polling Station-III under Aizawl West-I vide Voter ID No. GDP 0094425. It further alleged that smugglers are moving freely under the MNF government, and Abu Mazumdar (who was arrested by Assam Police and released on bail) recently had breakfast at the residence of FCS&amp;CA Minister and attended government official functions. The same indicated liberty of smugglers under the MNF government. It also urged the Chief Minister to clarify whether the state government give protection to smugglers and questioned whether the Police are restrained from taking action against them. It also highlighted the menace of drugs and alcohol within the state, and urged to clarify continued engagement of OSD to Chief Minister, who spent most of his time in Delhi by incurring huge expenses.**

(b) ZPM General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 18.10.2022 stated that Dr. Vanlalthlana, MLA inaugurated Anganwadi Centre III at Ramhlun South, which was constructed at a cost of Rs.10,35,465. A short inaugural function was organized and delivering a speech at the function the MLA expressed his desire to utilize the said Anganwadi Centre by children for their best interest.

**20.10.2022 :** ZPM Gen. Headquarters issued a Press Release on 20.10.2022 with regard to the visit and spot verification of Tamdil Tourist complex by leaders of ZPM led by Pu Lalthansanga, Vice President today. ZPM alleged that during 2022, Tamdil has been renovated by Department of Tourism twice spending as many as Rs.19.72 lakhs. They alleged that in spite of spending Rs.19.72 lakhs on renovation, step/approach alley has been damaged and there is no serviceable boat available at Tamdil. They further alleged that cottages and cafeteria at Tamdil are in dilapidated condition. Pu Lalthansanga reportedly said that Government has posted a chawkidar to replace the sacked Boatman at Tamdil and further said that without a receptionist, tourist will face communication problem at Tamdil.

**21.10.2022 :** (a) ZPM issued a Press Release on 21.10.2022 with regard to the participation of ZPM leaders, namely - Pu F. Rodingliana, Vice Chairman, Policy Drafting committee, Dr. Vanlalthlana MLA; Pu H. Lianzuala, Member, Policy Drafting committee and Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President ZPM Thalai at the India-Bangladesh Buyer Seller Meeting held at Taj Vivanta, Guwahati during 19th- 21st October, 2022. It stated that the Meeting was jointly organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce and Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce &amp; Industry, Govt. of India which was attended by dignitaries like Shri BL Verma, Hon'ble Minister, DoNER; Dr. Mashiur Rahman, Adviser to PM of Bangladesh. It also mentioned that leaders of ZPM had displayed samples of gingers, brooms, dragon fruits, chilli, cardamom, etc. at the meeting and search for export prospect of Mizoram horticulture products.

(b) Pu PC Vanlalruata, General Secretary, ZPM convened a press conference on 21.10.2022 @1:00 pm at Aizawl Press club with regard to the dissolution of Zemabawk Local Council on 16th August, 2022 due to the alleged joining of ZPM party by a Local Council member of MNF and Congress. In this regard, Pu PC Vanlalruata expressed their grievances over the alleged failure of the Government to conduct election within 60 days of dissolution and failure to appoint administrator during this period.

(c) Leader of ZPM Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President is scheduled to visit villages under Lawngtlai East Assembly Constituency during 26th-29th October, 2022. He will be accompanied by Pu Lalchhuanthanga MLA; Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, Gen. Secretary, ZPM and other leaders of ZPM.

**25.10.2022:**  (a)ZPM Lai District Headquarters organized 'Induction of new members and Public Meeting' at Lawngtlai Areopagi on 25.10.2022. Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President attended the function and he inducted Pu H. Thangchemsanga, Ex-MDC; Pu PT Lalchuanglura, Ex-MDC; Pu Keihranga, MDC Independent Candidate; Pu Ricky Lalramdina, MA and Pu Nguniapthanga, Pangkhua into ZPM party. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu K. Sapdanga stated that after 2023 election, ZPM intends to adopt new system in the government and Lai people should be included in that system. He also stated that VUC nominated Pu Lalduhoma as Chief Ministerial candidate and the same was fully accepted by ZPM. He further stated that ZPM is preparing to secure absolute majority in the upcoming election and as such, no initiative has been taken for forming alliance with other parties. Pu Lalchhuanthanga, MLA also delivered a speech and a Press Release in this regard was issued today.

(b) ZPM Thalai (Youth) in its Press Release issued on 25.10.2022 stated that there have been reported instances regarding collection of money from SEDP beneficiaries for party fund in some villages, and ZPM Thalai viewed the same seriously as SEDP is distributed from public money and it should be expended solely for public interest. It also requested to report occurrence of any incident of collection of SEDP money for party fund to ZPM Thalai. It further stated that severe necessary action will be taken against District SEDP Board, if there is occurrence of incident of misuse of SEDP fund.

**26.10.2022:** ZPM Siaha District Headquarters held 'Induction of New Members cum Public Meeting Function' on 26.10.2022 at Tipa village, Siaha District. Pu K Sapdanga, ZPM Working President attended the function and he inducted 111 (one hundred and eleven) new members including Pu K Siakhai, Ex-MDC and Pu B Pheihra, Ex-CEO into ZPM party. Delivering a speech at the function, Pu K. Sapdanga stated that the southern area of Mizoram is rich in mineral resources and undivided Chhimtuipui district could be the rice bowl of Mizoram. However, the previous government neglected the southern area and ZPM intends to make use of the potential of southern area. He also stated that Kolodyne Project is having the biggest potential of generating Hydro electric power and the said project could not be completed by the present and preceding governments. He further stated that the general public intend to form absolute government in the upcoming 2023 General Election and they intend to use ZPM Party as a medium for the same. Pu Lalchhuanthanga, MLA and Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, ZPM General Secretary also delivered speeches at the function. The function was presided by Pu BS Lualai, Vice President, ZPM Siaha District Headquarters. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****28.10.2022:** (a) In continuation of his ongoing tour within Hrangturzo Constituency, leader of ZPM, Pu Lalduhoma MLA has visited Leng, Sailulak and Mualcheng villages today and held public meetings. In his speech at the public meetings, Pu Lalduhoma said that ZPM will give priority on power project and also stressed upon Hand Holding Policy of ZPM. He also asserted that ZPM will transform Mizoram in 100 day time if it forms government. He also criticised free distribution policy being implemented by other political parties. ZPM Gen. Headquarters issued a Press Release in this regard today.**

(b) On 28.10.2022 @12:00 noon, ZPM Lunglei South Block-I held Lunglei Municipal Ward 9 &amp; 10 Meet at Lunglei Truck Owners Association Building, Lunglawn. Pu R. Lalzidinga, President, ZPM Lunglei South Block-I chaired the Meet and ZPM Working President, K. Sapdanga also attended. During the meet, Pu K. Sapdanga urged party members to strive for victory on Lunglei Municipal Election and to garner at least 2000 votes out of the total 4275 votes in the two wards. Pu K. Sapdanga also reportedly inducted 112 new members into ZPM Party at the Meet.

****31.10.2022 :** (a) Today, i.e., 31.10.2022 @ 11:00 am, ZPM Gen. Headquarters convened party meeting at their Office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. During the meeting, Pu Lalliansawta, ZPM President reportedly inducted as many as 100 (one hundred) new members from Sakawrtuichhun, Luangmual and Vaivakawn into ZPM party. Pu Lalliansawta said that the Autumn Political Expedition organised by ZPM has elevated ZPM to a new height. Party leader Pu Lalduhoma MLA also delivered a speech in which he invited the people of Mizoram to prove their resistance against corruption in 2023 General Election. He also said that ZPM is getting ready to form Government and further said Chief Minister will not have portfolio if ZPM form Government. Dr. Vanlalneiha Ralte, Gen. Secretary, ZPM presided over the meeting and about 80 (eighty) members attended.**

(b) ZPM Thalai issued a Press Release today, i.e., 31.10.2022 in which they expressed their grievances over the alleged obstruction made by Assam Chief Minister, Shri Himanta Biswas Sharma against the selling of areca nuts in Assam by farmers in Hachhek Assembly Constituency. They also urged the Government of Mizoram to take immediate measure to solve the problems being faced by the farmers.

(c) On 29.10.2022, ZPM Working President, K. Sapdanga visited and held public meeting at Haulawng, Chhipphir and Zote South villages. In his speech, Pu K. Sapdanga stressed upon the significance of grass root politics and stated that the voting behaviour of the people depends on the performance of local unit leaders. Pu K. Sapdanga was accompanied by leaders of ZPM namely, Pu KJ Lalbiakngheta, Secretary and Pu V. Malsawmtluanga, Vice President, ZPM Southern Headquarters.

(d) ZPM Gen. Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 29.10.2022 highlighted about the celebration function of Govt. Johnson College's NAAC Grade 'B' Accreditation on 28.10.2022 wherein Pu Zaithanzama MLA attended as Chief Guest. Pu Zaithanzama reportedly spoke on his contribution for development of education in Aizawl West-III.

****1.11.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 1.11.2022 with regard to the alleged delay in conduct of Election of Zemabawk Local Council which was dissolved by the Government on 16th August, 2022. It stated that as per the Wards &amp; Local Council Rules 2010, election should be conducted within 60 days of dissolution and blame MNF Ministry of lacking confidence to conduct election on time. It also stated that ZPM Thalai President, Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte had informed the matter to Election Commission of India (ECI) and the ECI had conveyed that they will discuss the issue with the State Election Commission.**

(b) On 1.11.2022, ZPM Gen. Headquarters issued a Press Release wherein they expressed their disappointment over the problems being faced by areca nuts farmers within Hachhek Assembly Constituency in selling their products. They also regretted that Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP), Hachhek all VCs and all NGOs are organising picketing of Government offices within Hachhek area due to the alleged reluctance of the Government in solving the problems of farmers. They urged the Government to immediately solve the problems of the agitating farmers.

**4.11.2022 :** ZPM THALAI (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 4.11.2022 in which they expressed their disappointment over the death of 3 (three) person at Rulkual on 14.10.2022 and Francis Rochungnunga at Lawngtlai yesterday (3.11.2022) due to electrocution and alleged that it was due to administrative failure. They accused the concern minister, Pu R. Lalzirliana, Hon'ble Minister, P&amp;E, etc. of having moral responsibility and demanded him to tender resignation immediately.

****7.11.2022 :** ZPM Party meeting was held on 7.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their office, Republic Veng, Aizawl under the chairmanship of their President, Pu Lalliansawta and about 80 (eighty) members attended. During the meeting, Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President reportedly inducted 130 (one hundred thirty) members from ZNP into ZPM party. In his speech, Pu K. Sapdanga alleged that the people of Mizoram want to experiment Pu Lalduhoma as the Chief Minister and also said that ZPM is contented that people who are desperate in politics and who want changes joined the party. He also said all ZPM members have supported Pu Lalduhoma as the Chief Ministerial Candidate of ZPM. Pu Lalduhoma MLA also addressed the meeting in which he stated that new members have joined the party due to the reconciliation of disparity within the party and reconciliation happened due to forgiveness among leaders. He also invited members of Peoples' Conference Party to join ZPM.**

**9.11.2022 :** (a) On 8.11.2022 @11:00 a.m., ZPM Kolasib Block Conference &amp; Political Training was held at Kolasib Diakkawn YMA Hall. Pu R. Lalruaia, Kolasib Block ZPM President presided over the Conference cum Training Programme and about 400 (four hundred) members attended. Pu B. Lalchhanzova, ZPM Gen. Secretary imparted Political Training and leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters, Pu Lalduhoma MLA; Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President and others also participated at the Conference. In his speech, Pu Lalduhoma lauded Local Units of ZPM and remarks that consequence upon their great efforts, new members have been joining ZPM Party. Pu K. Sapdanga also slammed the various policies and projects being implemented by MNF Ministry and said that Mizoram urgently required reliable Chief Minister. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, ZPM PAC Member and Baryl Vanneihsangi, AMC Councillor also delivered speeches. During the Conference, Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted as many as 630 (six hundred and thirty) members (MNF-177, INC-264, Neutral-177, PC-10, NPP-2) into ZPM Party.

(b) On 9.11.2022 @11:00 a.m., ZPM Serlui North Block organized induction function at Vairengte Multipurpose Hall Vairengte Chhim Veng. Pu B. Sangluaia President ZPM Serlui North Block presided over the function and about 175 (one hundred seventy five) members attended. Pu Lalduhoma MLA graced the function and he reportedly inducted 736 (seven hundred thirty six) new members from Vairengte, Saihapui V, Phainuam and N. Chhimluang into ZPM party.

(c) ZPM issued a Press Release on 9.11.2022 regarding the inauguration of Mamit West ZPM Block at Damparengpui YMA Hall today by Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President. At the inaugural function Pu K. Sapdanga reportedly inducted 31 (thirty one) new members into ZPM.

**10.11.022:** On 10.11.022, ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) conducted Political Training at Mosia Picnic Spot, Sihhmui. Dr. C. Lalrammawia, Sr. Vice President ZPM Thalai presided over the Training Programme and Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, ZPM Thalai President addressed the training in which he stressed upon the essence of fearing God in politics. Pu R. Lalthanmawia, Secretary, Organization Department, ZPM General Headquarters imparted training to ZPM Thalai members.

**11.11.2022 :** (a) Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, PAC Member ZPM Gen. Headquarters convened Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 11.11.2022 @2:00 p.m. with regard to the verification done by ZPM on issue relating to compensation on expansion (four lane) of NH-306. As many as 25 media persons attended and he apprised media persons on the following points:

 (i) NH-306 four laning (Vairengte to North Chhimluang) is divided into 4  packages. Package 1 &amp; 2 belongs to Assam and Package 3 &amp; 4 belongs  to Mizoram.

 (ii) CALA (Addl. DC, Kolasib) had completed all verification and survey of  lands for compensation.

 (iii) That, 14 households from Mizoram (between Vairengte Police Check  Gate and Assam Border) are included under package 2.

 (iv) CALA had already requested NHIDCL to transfer 14 (fourteen)   households into package under Mizoram. But NHIDCL claims that they  can transfer only with approval of MoRTH.

 (v) That, When NHIDCL ask for Forest Clearance, Government of  Mizoram had replied that only package 3 and beyond (Beyond  Vairengte Police Check Gate) is looked after by Mizoram and require  Forest Clearance.

 He strongly slammed the Government of Mizoram over the alleged requirement of claimant of compensation and Forest Clearance to Assam Government for the 14 (fourteen) households of Vairengte. He also stated that Mizoram Police who are guarding Mizoram-Assam border are not properly equipped by Government of Mizoram.

 (b) ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 11.11.2022 in which they accused the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Mizoram of ignoring the students of Govt. Aizawl North College after promising them to allot a plot of land under UD&amp;PA at Falkland for their college. They also alleged that students have been facing problems due to slow progress in construction of Aizawl North College building and held that only 45% of the construction have been done in spite of spending Rs.68,77,440/-. They also demanded the Government to clarify the reason behind the undue delay in completion of the building construction.

****14.11.2022 :** ZPM Party meeting was held on 14.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at their office, Republic Veng, Aizawl under the chairmanship of Pu W. Lalchhuanawma, ZPM Consultant and about 70 (seventy) members attended. During the meeting Pu Vanlalhlana MLA &amp; ZPM Legislature Party Deputy Leader delivered a speech in which he underlines the problems being faced by Mizoram due to corruption. He said that Mizoram need leaders like Pu Ch. Chhunga (L) and Brig. T. Sailo (L), former Chief Ministers of Mizoram who have integrity and free from corruption. He also said that Pu Lalduhoma had been designated as Most Non-Corrupt Politician by MZP in 2001 and maintained that ZPM will continue to fight against corruption.**

**16.11.2022** : (a) On (15.11.2022), ZPM Tuivawl Block I &amp; II organised Political Training and Induction function at Darlawn Town Hall, Aizawl District. Leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters led by Pu Lalduhoma MLA attended the function and Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted as many as 630 (six hundred thirty) new members into ZPM Party during the function.

(b) ZPM Gen. Headquarters issued a Press release on 16.11.2022 in which they claimed that there have been political instabilities under the ruling of MNF party both at Chakma Autonomous District Council and Lai Autonomous District Council. ZPM expressed their regret over this alleged political upheaval and said that the people are the victims.

****17.11.2022** : (a) On 16.11.2022, ZPM Leader, Pu Lalduhoma MLA visited and held public meeting at Kepran and Pehlawn villages under Tuivawl Assembly Constituency. During the public meeting, Pu Lalduhoma stated that ZPM main policy is upliftment of the farmers and said that it will be implemented through research base. He also expressed his support on the initiative taken by YMA and Churches to fight corruption.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 17.11.2022 in which they slammed MNF Ministry over the seizure of smuggling areca nuts and other illegal items by Hachhek Bial Kuhva Chingtu Pawl (HBKCP) today at Kawrthah and claimed that this reveals failure of the Government. They urged the Government to immediately stop smuggling of areca nuts.

****21.11.2022** : The Party Meeting of ZPM Gen. Headquarters was held on 21.11.2022 @11:00 a.m., at ZPM Office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. Pu Lalmuanpuia Punte, Gen. Secretary ZPM presided over the meeting and about 70 (seventy) members attended. Rev. R. Lalrinsanga, General Superintendent, UPC NEI delivered a devotional talk. Dr. Kenneth Chawngliana, Vice President ZPM addressed the meeting in which he stated that ZPM Party Goal, Policy and Party are the three main manifestos of ZPM. He also stressed upon the significance of skilful promotion of party manifestos during election campaign. He also stated that ZPM objective is to form collective leadership wherein party President cannot become Chief Minister and the Chief Minister can hold office only for 2 (two) terms. He also asserted that ZPM have the best policy among political parties in Mizoram.**

**22.11.2022 :** ZPM Dampa West Block Conference cum Political Training was held on 22.11.2022 @11:30 a.m. at Tawna Hall, West Phaileng. Pu Vanneihthanga, President, ZPM Dampa West Block chaired the Conference cum Political Training programme and about 150 (one hundred fifty) members attended. ZPM leader Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President also attended and Pu K. Sapdanga reportedly inducted 306 (three hundred and six) new members into ZPM. Pu Lalduhoma also addressed the gathering party members in which he stated that ZPM does not discriminate Chakma and Bru communities. In fact, ZPM will ensure that Central Government's funds and aid for Chakma and Bru are implemented as it is allocated. ZPM Working President, Pu K. Sapdanga also delivered a speech and Pu B. Lalchhanzova, ZPM Gen. Secretary i/c Planning &amp; Policy imparted training to the delegates.
****23.11.2022:** Leaders of ZPM, Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President have been touring Hachhek Assembly Constituency areas. They hold public meetings at Kawrtethawveng and Hriphaw villages last night and today respectively. During the public meetings, Pu Lalduhoma stated that ZPM is preparing to form Government in the coming election and they will implement the policy of Brig. T. Sailo. He also said that ZPM will introduce Hand Holding Policy and Crop Insurance Policy. Pu K. Sapdanga also stated that ZPM does not discriminate Bru and Chakma communities.**

**24.11.2022 :** (a) ZPM President, Pu Lalliansawta had recently appointed Dr. C. Lalrammawia, the incumbent Sr. Vice President of ZPM Thalai as President, ZPM Thalai and the incumbent President of ZPM Thalai, Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte, had been appointed as General Secretary of ZPM Gen. Headquarters.

(b) On 24.11.2022, ZPM Hachhek North Block Conference was held at Kawrthah Hmarveng YMA Hall. Pu RS Vanlalpeka, President, Hachhek North Block presided over the conference and leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President graced the Conference. During the Conference Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted as many as 502 (five hundred and two) new members into ZPM Party. Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga are also scheduled to attend Public Meeting and Induction programme to be organized by ZPM Mamit Central Block on 24.11.2022 @7:00 p.m. at VC Hall, Mamit Bazar Veng..

(c) ZPM Southern Headquarters had recently conducted 'Sikpui Fehchhuah Programme' (Winter Political Expedition) within Lunglei District. The group led by Pu Lalramliana, Treasurer, ZPM Lunglei Southern Headquarters had reportedly inducted 45 (forty five) new members into ZPM from Zehtet and Buknuam villages. The group also visited Lalnutui, Lungrang, Mautlang, Rualalung and Chawngte 'L' and held public meetings.

**25.11.2022 :** Leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters, Pu Lalduhoma MLA and Pu K. Sapdanga, Working President graced Public Meeting and Induction Function organized by ZPM Central Block Mamit held on the evening of 24.11.2022 @7:00 p.m. at VC Hall, Mamit Bazar Veng. Pu V. Lalbiaktlinga Sailo, President, ZPM Central Block Mamit presided over the function and about 150 (one hundred fifty) members attended. Pu K. Sapdanga reportedly inducted as many as 623 (six hundred twenty three) new members into ZPM Party. Pu Lalduhoma also addressed the gathering party members wherein he stated that 1431 (one thousand four hundred thirty one) new members have joined ZPM Party during their ongoing tour within Mamit District. He also highlighted the various policies of ZPM.

**28.11.2022 :** (a) ZPM in its Press Release issued on 26.11.2022 alleged that as per the instruction of DC, Lunglei, BDO, Lunglei had issued an order on 11th November, 2022, regarding Census of Non-Mizo wherein 7 (seven) Mizo-sub clans like Chawrai, Simte, Zou, Zomi, Neihsial, Ranglong and Thadou and other non-Mizo who are not inhabited in Mizoram are included. They expressed their serious concern in this issue and accused the Government of ignorant in sub-clans of Mizo and urged the Government to immediately cancel the order.

(b) On 28.11.2022, the newly appointed President of ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth), Dr. C. Lalrammawia took charge from the outgoing President, Pu Malsawmzuala Ralte. The function was held at ZPM Thalai Office and it was presided over by Pu Laltanpuia Zote, Vice President, ZPM Thalai.

(c) ZPM General Headquarters held Party Devotion Meeting on 28.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at ZPM Office, Republic Veng. Pu David M. Thangliana, Adviser chaired the function and around 60 (sixty) members attended. Delivering a speech at the function, Rev. Dr. K. Thanzauva, Vice President ZPM General Headquarters stated that ZPM prepared a new system to replace the existing and obsolete system. He also stated that Christian principle of love and justice is the policy of ZPM, and he believed that if the state administration is in the right direction, Mizoram could be the model state among the Indian states. Pu BS Lualai, Vice President, ZPM Siaha District Headquarters and Pu Thangchemsanga, Ex-MDC, ZPM Lawngtlai District Headquarters also delivered speeches at the function. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

**29.11.022 :** (a) On 28.11.2022, the newly appointed President of ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth), Dr. C. Lalrammawia and about 8 (eight) leaders of ZPM conducted spot verification of the ongoing renovation works of Lengpui Airport Terminal building. During the spot verification, ZPM Thalai reportedly observed that the alleged spending of Rs.59 Lakhs on construction of new conveyer belt and another Rs.44 lakhs on extension of existing conveyer belt are disproportionate and excessive. They also found that consequence upon the alleged uses of trolleys for carrying construction materials by contractor, many trolleys at the Airport had been damaged. ZPM Thalai maintained that they will keep close vigil at the ongoing renovation works of Lengpui Airport.

(b) ZPM Thalai Southern Headquarters issued a Press Release on 29.11.022 in which they accused Pu Zodintluanga Ralte MLA of making baseless statements in his ongoing visits of Thorang Assembly Constituency area. They alleged Pu Zodintluanga Ralte of making false allegation by saying that ZPM MsLA are acting fast on matters relating to financial benefit. They also accused Pu Zodintluanga of false allegation to ZPM on their ideology towards Bru and Chakma. They stated that ZPM has no discrimination towards Bru and Chakma who are citizen of India.

****30.11.2022 :** (a) ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei issued a Press Release on 30.11.2022 regarding Sikpui Fehchhuah (Winter Campaign) conducted by ZPM Southern Headquarters, Lunglei. The Winter Campaign was led by Pi Lalrinpuii, President, ZPM Southern Headquarters and they visited villages under Thorang Assembly Constituency namely, Thuampui, Lungdai, Serte, Sertlangpui, Kawlhawk, Buarpui, New Khawlek, South Khawlek and villages under Lunglei West Assembly Constituency namely, Maudarh, Rotlang E, Leite and Dawn. During the Winter Campaign it was reported that as many as 30 (thirty) new members were inducted into ZPM party.**

(b) Pu Lalduhoma MLA and leader of ZPM visited Lungpho village, Serchhip District on 30.11.2022 and attended the public meeting organized by ZPM Lungpho Unit at Lungpho Community Hall. During the public meeting, Pu Lalduhoma reportedly inducted 137 (one hundred thirty seven) new members from Lungpho, Ngentiang and Thinglian villages into ZPM party.

**1.12.2022:** Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, ZPM PAC Member attended the Political Training organized by ZPM Hachhek West Block at Thinghlun Community Hall as resource person on 1.12.2022. During the Political Training, Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga reportedly inducted 63 (sixty three) new members into ZPM party. Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga was accompanied by leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters and they also visited Mizoram Police personnel who are posted at Mizoram-Assam border. He also reportedly makes an appeal to Karimganj Addl. DC through telephone to take immediate measures for solving the problems being faced by areca nuts farmers of Hachhek area in selling their products.

****2.12.2022 :** ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 2.12.2022 regarding construction of elevated road in Aizawl. ZPM Thalai allegedly claimed that State Government had already spent an amount of Rs.82 lakhs just for the preparation of feasibility report for construction of elevated road between Bawngkawn and Vaivakawn in Aizawl, while DPR is not yet prepared. Telecommunication Consultant India Ltd. had been engaged to prepare feasibility report stated ZPM Thalai. ZPM Thalai alleged that the information was received through RTI.**

****5.12.2022 :** ZPM held party meeting at their office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. 5.12.2022 @11:00 a.m. Pu K. Liantuala, ZPM Consultant presided over the meeting and Maj. Dr. K. Thanruma delivered a devotional talk and about 70 (seventy) members attended. During the meeting Pu Lalliansawta, President ZPM Gen. Headquarters delivered a speech wherein he appealed party members to strive hard for 2023 General Election and also stressed upon the significance of team work. Pu SL Ngursailova Sailo, Gen. Secretary ZPM also addressed the gathering party members and spoke on the alleged involvement of Pu Lalrinliana Sailo, Hon’ble Speaker of Mizoram in corruption and also criticised SEDP. Pu Lalliansawta also announced the following as Office Bearers of ZPM Upa Committee (ZPM Elderly Committee) :**

 President  : Pu Rosiamhnuna, Ramhlun South

 Sr. Vice President  : Pu KL Remsiama, Vaivakawn

 Vice President : Pu C. Lalengliana, Tlangnuam   Vengthar

 Treasurer : Pu H. Zoramthanga, Republic

 Gen. Secretary : Pu Darmawia, Durtlang

 Secretary : Pu Darkhuma Fanai, Maubawk.

****07.12.2022 :** (a) ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) President, Dr. C. Lalrammawia held Press Conference on 7.12.2022 @1:00 pm at Aizawl Press Club with regard to the alleged misappropriation of Mizoram Health Care Scheme funds. In his Press Statement, Dr. C. Lalrammawia stated that ZPM Thalai had sought information on detail expenditure of Health Case funds through RTI and the RTI response allegedly indicated that fees collected on Health Care Scheme had been utilised on administrative expenditure like TA/DA, staff salary, training expenditure, office expense, etc. and only the remaining were spend for payment of Health Care Bills. It stated that a total amount of Rs. 7,28,89,880/ had been spend on administrative cost during 1.10.2020 till date while only Rs. 3,21,65,987/- had been utilised on payment of Health Care Bills, which cover only 1,158 beneficiaries. It also alleged that pending of 29,302 Health Care Bills amounting to Rs. 80,54,44,879 till 21st September, 2022, clearly shows the reluctance of the State Government on Health Care Scheme. As many as 20 (twenty) media persons attended the Press Conference.**

(b) Leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters led by Pu K. Sapdanga, ZPM Working President are scheduled to visits Lengteng Assembly Constituency area on 8th and 9th December, 2022. During their visit, they will hold political training at Kawlkulh and Ngopa.

****09.12.2022 :** (a) Leaders of ZPM Gen. Headquarters led by Working President, Pu K. Sapdanga has been visiting villages under Lengteng Assembly Constituency on 8.12.2022 and on. 9.12.2022. Pu K. Sapdanga had reportedly inducted 200 (two hundred) new members into ZPM yesterday at a function held at Kawlkulh. In his speech, Pu K. Sapdanga maintained that rules and regulations will prevail in Mizoram under ZPM Ministry. Pu F. Rodingliana, Consultant, ZPM General Headquarters and Pu TBC Lalvenchhunga, ZPM PAC member also delivered speeches. Pu Lalbuatsaiha, President, Lengteng South Block presided over the function.**

(b) ZPM Thalai (ZPM Youth) issued a Press Release on 9.12.2022 in which they accused Pu C. Lalrosanga, M.P (Lok Sabha) and Pu K. Vanlalvena, M.P (Rajya Sabha) of defaming MNF Ministry and revealing failure of law &amp; order in Mizoram by taking initiatives in New Delhi against smuggling of areca nuts. It further alleged that only 5 cases had been registered in Kolasib District against smuggling of area nuts in spite of seizures of large quantities of areca nuts in Mizoram.

****12.12.2022 :** ZPM held party meeting at their office, Republic Veng, Aizawl on. 12.12.2022 @11:00 a.m. Pu R. L. Liantluanga, ZPM Chief Organiser was the chairman of the meeting and about 70 (seventy) members attended. Rev. Darchungnunga, Chairman ZPM Tawngtai Pawl (ZPM Prayer Cell) delivered a devotional talk and Pu Haukhuma Hauzel (IAS Retd.) ZPM Consultant addressed the meeting. In his speech, Pu Haukhuma Hauzel claimed that ZPM, in spite of its young age, is the most developing party in Mizoram due to its policy and ideology. He also stated that ZPM has formulated Sustainable Development &amp; Reform Policy (SDRP) to transform Mizoram. He also said that Churches have resolved to combat corruption and to initiate for reformation of politics in Mizoram.**

****16.12.2022 :** ZPM Party office closing function for the year 2022 was held on 16.12.2022 @11:00 a.m. at ZPM office, Republic Veng, Aizawl. Dr. Kenneth Chawngliana, Vice President ZPM Gen. Headquarters presided over the function and about 90 (ninety) members attended. Rev. Vanlalzuata of Chawlhhmun delivered a devotional talk and ZPM President, Pu Lalliansawta delivered a speech. In his speech, Pu Lalliansawta expressed his gratitude to party workers for their contributions and conveyed Christmas and New Year greetings to all the party members.**

**20.12.2022 :** ZPM Thalai in its Press Release issued on 20.12.2022 slammed the Government of Mizoram over the proposed rotational plying of two wheeler taxi w.e.f. 2023. It alleged that rotational plying of two wheeler taxi has been proposed by MNF Ministry to facilitate issuance of additional two wheeler taxi permits to party members. It also accused the Government of spoiling the business of people engage in taxi, both two wheeler taxi and four wheeler taxi. It insisted the Government to stop issuing two wheeler taxi permit and not to enforce rotational plying of two wheeler taxi.

DSI 2022