**15.3.2022 :**World Consumers' Rights Day 2022 Function was held on 15.3.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at CYMA Conference Hall. The function was presided by Prof. Chawngsailova, President, Mizoram Consumers Union Headquarters and Pu Zothanmawia, Secretary, FCS&amp;CA Department graced the function as Chief Guest and Pi Ramdinliani, Director, FCS&amp;CA Department as Guest of Honour. During the function, various presentations on topic related to consumer rights were given and around 120 (one hundred twenty) members attended.

****09.12.22 :** Mizoram Co-operative Forum (MCF) held a Press Conference on 9.12.22 @12:00 Noon at Aizawl Press Club. Pu Vanlalchhunga, MCF President led the press conference and 13 (thirteen) members including media persons attended. During the press conference, Pu Lianthangpuia, General Secretary MCF gave a report and a Press Statement was issued wherein they stated that Mizoram Cooperative Forum (MCF) was formed in the year 2008 under the guidance of Pu Biakliana (L), Former Chairman, MCAB Ltd. It also stated that the then Congress Ministry amended Mizoram Cooperative Societies Rule by adding a provision for constitution of Mizoram Cooperative Development Council (MCDC) in the year 2012, and they expressed their desire for promulgation of the Act which would upgrade MCDC as Financing &amp; Promoting Council in line with National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). In this connection, it appealed the ruling MNF government to fulfil the same. It further expressed their support of the amendment of Mizoram Cooperative Societies Rule in the year 2000 by the then MNF Ministry which prohibit any individual/person to be a member of Cooperative Management Board for more than 2 (two) consecutive terms. At the same time, they expressed their desire to exempt the said provision for Primary Society due to acute shortages of eligible members.**