****6.1.2022 :** Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Higher &amp; Technical Education (H&amp;TE) Minister held a meeting with Principals of Govt. Colleges within the state on 6.1.2022 at SAD Conference Hall, MINECO. During the meeting, discussion was held on the action taken for implementation of New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 within the state. It was highlighted in the meeting that Mizoram University has constituted Task Force on New Education Policy and necessary action for implementation of New Education Policy is being underway. A matter concerning NAAC accreditation was also discussed in the meeting and it was highlighted in the meeting that only 2 (two) colleges within the state are still being left out for NAAC accreditation, and at present, Serchhip College is the only college with NAAC grade 'A' accreditation within the state. Regarding pending salary of teaching staff under RUSA, the Minister stated that Utilization Certificate was submitted on time in order to avoid delay in release of fund by the Central. However, due to issuance of new OM regarding funding system by Ministry of Finance and there was delay in release of fund and they expected to complete the process within this week. Pi Esther Lalruatkimi, Commissioner, H&amp;TE Department and concerned department officials also attended the meeting.**
****31.1.2022 :** Provisional Employee Association of Mizoram (PEAM) called a Press Conference under the guidance of Pu Lalhruaitluanga Sailo, President, PEAM on 31.1.2022 @12:30 p.m. at Aizawl Press Club and he was accompanied by 6 (six) PEAM members and 17 (seventeen) media persons attended. During the Press Conference, a Press Note was issued which stated that at present, there are more than 8500 (eight thousand five hundred) Provisional Employees under the government of Mizoram and it expressed disappointment that Provisional Employees Regularization Scheme w.e.f. 28.5.2020 was kept in abeyance owing to austerity measures taken by the State government and it urged the State government to revoke the same. It also highlighted various instances where the State government regularized its employees during the same period. It stated that the new Order issued by Finance Department regarding regularization scheme of Provisional Employees who are having remaining service of 10 years or lesser on 18.6.2021 violated the decision of Council of Minister and the same was beyond the department's jurisdiction. It further demanded inclusion of Provisional Employees under the New Pension Scheme.**

****20.1.2022:**Pi Sanyukta Samaddar, Adviser, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) NITI Aayog and other officials met Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister at his Office Chamber on 20.1.2022. During the meeting, Pi Sanyukta Samaddar gave a presentation on the status of Mizoram in comparison with other states in the SDG Index, detailed study of North East India conducted by SDG, and status of Mizoram in the Base Line Report on National Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index. The presentation was followed by discussion on measures to be taken for improvement of the state's position. Pu Lalmalsawma Pachuau, Secretary, Planning &amp; Programme Implementation Department and concerned department officials also attended the meeting.**
**21.1.2022 :** (a) 50th Anniversary of Mizoram Police Raising Day celebration function was held on 21.1.2022 @12:00 Noon at Vanapa Hall. Pu John Neihlaia, IGP chaired the function and Pu Zoramthanga, Hon'ble Chief Minister graced the function as Chief Guest and Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister was the Guest of Honour. After the celebration function, the Chief Minister unveiled 50th years of Mizoram Police Monument at PHQ.

(b) Federation of Mizoram Samagra Employees (FEMSE) General Headquarters and Affiliated Association OBs Joint Meeting was held on 21.1.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Cultural Centre cum Auditorium, Vaivakawn, Aizawl. Pu W. Lalhlimpuia, President, FEMSE presided the meeting and 40 (forty) members attended. The meeting decided to request all MsLA within Aizawl District to take necessary follow up action for immediate implementation of recommendations of Study Group.

 A written memorandum was submitted to Chief Minister of Mizoram on 21.1.2022 with a request to take necessary action for immediate implementation of Study Group recommendations.

****15.2.2022 :** Provisional Employees Association of Mizoram (PEAM) held its Executive Emergency Meeting on 15.2.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at PWD Site Office, MINECO, Aizawl. Pu Lalhruaitluanga Sailo, President PEAM, presided the meeting and 20 (twenty) members attended. As per input, the meeting decided to resort to Mass Casual Leave on 17-18.2.2022 as no favorable information regarding their various demands has been received from the State government till date.**

**15.2.2022:** (a) Provisional Employees Association of Mizoram (PEAM) served a written petition to all Head of Departments, Government of Mizoram on 16.2.2022 wherein they requested not to create any difficulties to provisional employees under their respective departments in connection with their intention to resort to Mass Casual Leave on 17-18.2.2022.

 (b) Mizoram Workcharged Employees Association (MWEA) General Headquarters in its Circular issued on 14.2.2022 informed all their members to wear black badge during 21-25.2.2022 in support of the Federation of Mizoram Government Employees &amp; Workers (FMGE&amp;W) ongoing demand for increase of Dearness Allowance (DA), timely payment of monthly salary and pension benefits.

****18.2.2022:** Provisional Employees under various departments across the State continued to avail Mass Casual Leave on 18.2.2022. Leaders of PEAM stated that at present, there are around 9,000 provisional employees under various departments across the state.**

 9 (nine) leaders of Provisional Employees Association of Mizoram (PEAM) led by Pu Lalhruaitluanga Sailo, President PEAM met the Chief Minister of Mizoram on 11:00 a.m. at the latter's office. It was reported that the Chief Minister requested them to await up to April, 2022 regarding their demand for resumption of Regularisation of Provisional Employees Scheme and advised them to meet Finance Commissioner regarding implementation of New Pension Scheme (NPS) for provisional employees.

 In this connection, a Meeting was held today @ 1:00 p.m. at PWD Site Office, MINECO, Khatla, Aizawl. Pu Lalhruaitluanga Sailo, President PEAM presided the meeting and 36 (thirty six) members attended. The meeting decided to call off their ongoing agitation w.e.f. from today and to meet Finance Commissioner in the coming week regarding implementation of New Pension Scheme (NPS) for provisional employees.

****25.2.2022:** National Health Mission Employees Union (NEUM), Mizoram in its Press Release issued on 25.2.2022 stated that NEUM Executive Meeting was held on 24.2.2022 to discuss their course of action in connection with their various difficulties. It also stated that at present, there are more than 2,000 (two thousand) NHM employees within the state, who are tirelessly working for improvement of the health of the general public. It further highlighted their various demands and difficulties faced by them as under :-**

 (i) There has been instances of charging of medical treatment bill on  COVID-19 patient NHM workers, who were treated at Government  designated COVID-19 Hospitals despite standing instruction for  provision of free medical treatment to all COVID-19 patient NHM  workers by the state government. In this connection, it urged the  authority for immediate implementation of the stated  instruction.

 (ii) As of now, 2 (two) months' salaries of NHM workers are lying  pending and it expressed their surprise for the inordinate delay in  crediting NHM fund to NHM account despite the Govt. of India's  instruction to credit the same within 21 days after the said fund was  released by the Central Government. In this connection,  it urged the authority to prioritize NHM fund and to credit the same   within the stipulated time.
 (iii) Expressed gratitude for constitution of a Study Team for  settlement of their various difficulties on 16.8.2021 and at the same  time, expressed disappointment over the failure to submit the Study  Team's Report to the State government even after 6 (six) months. In this  connection, it urged for immediate submission of Study Team's Report  to the State government.

 It also stated that if the State government failed to fulfill the above mentioned demands before 3.3.2022, their future course of action will be considered.

(b) Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Mizoram held a meeting on 25.2.2022 @ 11:30 a.m. at Chanmari YMA Recreation Room. Pi Zohmingliani, President ASHA, Mizoram presided the meeting and 8 (eight) members attended. The meeting decided to continue their agitation as they received only a few portions of their pending incentives. It also decided to continue putting pressure to the state government in demand for payment of all their pending incentives.

****30.3.2022 :** Mizoram Hindi Prachar Sabha (MHPS) in its Press Release issued on 30.3.2022 congratulated Pu V.L. Nghaka for receiving Padma Shree Award in the field of 'Literature and Education' from the President of India. It also highlighted the immense contribution for improvement of Hindi language and studies within the state by Pu VL Nghaka, founder President of MHPS. It further expressed gratitude over awarding of the same Award to Prof. Darchhawna and Pu C. Kamlova, both an Ex-Chairmen of MHPS on previous occasions.**

**4.4.2022 :** 'Zoram Thar' (New Mizoram) called a Press Conference under the guidance of Rev. Dr. Zaichhawna Hlawndo on 4.4.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at Aizawl Press Club. It was attended by 21 (twenty one) persons including 15 (fifteen) media persons. During the Press Conference, Rev. Dr. Zaichhawna Hlawndo stated that construction work of 'Zofate Pathian Biakinpui' (mega Church for all Mizo tribes) can now be started and he also released drawing/sketch map of the said Church. He also stated the said Church would be constructed covering 23809.52 square meters and presently, St. Peter's Basillica is the biggest church in the world with 23,000 squares meters, and the said church would be the largest church in the world after its completion. He further stated that the structure of the Church was designed by Design Plus Architects, Chanmari, Aizawl and construction work of the church will be undertaken by them, and Zoram Thar will be responsible for collection of the required fund for its construction. He appealed all Mizo tribes at various places across the world to participate or donate in the construction work as the same is to be constructed through mass community work.

**7.4.2022 :** Provisional Employee Association of Mizoram, PHED, Aizawl Branch submitted a written petition to the Deputy Chief Minister of Mizoram on 7.4.2022 wherein they stated that Mizoram Gazette issued on 12.3.2020 notified the effective date for Provisional Employees to be 04.3.2020. However, the Notification issued on 2.3.2022 by the Finance Department notified Dt. 1.3.2022 as the effective date for Provisional Employee under PHED while their counterparts under PWD and P&amp;E used the effective date as per the above stated Mizoram Gazette. In this connection, they expressed their disappointment and urged the Deputy Chief Minister to expedite movement of the File being under processed for making the effective date as Dt. 4.3.2020.

****8.4.2022 :** 6 (six) leaders of Federation Of Mizoram Samagra Employees (FEMSE) led by Pu R. Lalnunhlima, President FEMSE met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister at his Office Chamber on 8.4.2022 @ 11:45 a.m. in connection with their standing demand for hike in salary and regularisation of their service. During the meeting, the Chief Minister informed them to discuss the matter with authorities of Finance Department. Information received stated that FEMSE OB and all affiliated members intend to organise meeting on 21.4.2022 to discuss their above mentioned demands.**

****13.4.2022 :**6 (six) leaders of Mizoram Kohhran Hruaitute Committee (MKHC) led by Rev. Zionvarmawia, Vice Chairman, MKHC met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram on 13.4.2022 @ 4:30 p.m. at the latter's Office Chamber in connection with Mizoram Liquor Prohibition (MLP) Rules. The Chief Minister reportedly informed them that selling of liquor will remain totally prohibited in the new rules and at the same time, permission concerning selling of grape wine is under consideration.**

****21.4.2022 :** Federation of Mizoram Samagra Employees (FEMSE) held a meeting on 21.4.2022 @ 12:00 noon at Cultural Centre cum Auditorium, Vaivakawn, Aizawl. Pu Lalnunhlima, President, FEMSE presided the meeting and 67 (sixty seven) members attended. The meeting decided to take necessary action for immediate implementation of pay revise as per the Study Group Recommendation, and in this regard, they intend to submit a written memorandum to the Chief Minister of Mizoram and issue a Press Release within this month i.e., April, 2022. It also decided to call a Special Assembly on 10.6.2022 to discuss their course of action, if no favorable information is received from the State government before the end of May, 2022 regarding their standing demand.**
****26.4.2022 :** 3 (three) leaders of Federation of Mizoram Samagra Shiksha Employee (FEMSE) led by Pu R. Lalnunhlima, President FEMSE submitted a written memorandum to the Chief Minister of Mizoram on 26.4.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. wherein they stated that FEMSE Extended Council Meeting held on 21.4.2022 carefully examined recommendations contained in the 'Study Group Report' concerning hike in salary of employees under Samagra Shiksha, and considered the same to be fitting and appropriate. It was also reported in the meeting that a file concerning hike in their salary as per the recommendations of stated study group is still lying pending in the Finance Department for more than two months, and in this connection, it urged the Chief Minister to take necessary action in his capacity as the Finance Minister. It further stated that FEMSE Special General Conference will be held to discuss their course of action, if the Study Group's recommendation concerning hike in their salary is not implemented within the month of May, 2022.**

****4.5.2022 :** 6 (six) leaders of Mizoram Govt. Adhoc Aided Higher Secondary School Lecturers' Association (MIGAAHSSLA) led by Dr. David B Lalhruaitluanga, President MIGAAHSSLA met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram at the latter's Office Chamber on 4.5.2022 @ 3:45 p.m. and submitted a written petition, wherein they expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister regarding elevation of their schools into Adhoc Aided School due to his efforts. It also stated that their schools have been under Adhoc Aided School status for 14 (fourteen) years and in this connection, they requested the Chief Minister to elevate the 12 (twelve) MIGAAHSSLA member schools into Provincialised school.**

****6.5.2022 :** 4 (four) leaders of Mizoram Hindi Shikshak Sangh (CSS) led by Lalrawngbawla, President, met Shri. Ram Nath Kovind, Hon'ble President of India 6.5.2022 @ 9:30 a.m. at Raj Bhavan and submitted a written petition, wherein they requested the Hon'ble President to take necessary action so that at least half the salary of regular Teachers are earned by CSS Hindi Teachers. It also requested to take necessary action for regularization of Hindi Teachers considering their extremely unstable condition/status. It further highlighted the status of Hindi language within the state and vacancy of regular Hindi Teacher posts under the state government.**

**17.6.2022 :** Junior Engineer Service Association of Mizoram (JESAM) 5th General Assembly was held on 17.6.2022 @ 10:30 a.m. at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall. Pu PLC Lallawmkima, President, JESAM presided the assembly and Pu Robert Romawia Royte, Minister graced the assembly as Chief Guest. The assembly passed the agenda that necessary action should be taken for immediate implementation of Non-Functional Up-gradation (pay up-gradation of JE, who held the post for 10 years or more). The assembly was attended by around 200 (two hundred) members.

****20.6.2022 :** 4 (four) leaders of Mizoram National Pension System Subscriber Association (MNPSA) led by Pu Lalremruata, President, MNPSA met Pu Zoramthanga, Chief Minister of Mizoram on 20.6.2022 @ 11:30 a.m. at the latter's office chamber. During the meeting, leaders of MNPSA submitted a written a petition to Chief Minister wherein they stated that government of Mizoram adopted New Pension Scheme (NPS) without conducting proper study in the year 2010. It also stated that during 12 (twelve) years of adoption of NPS, many government employees retired on pension without reasonable pension fund and without proper monthly pension. It also requested that necessary arrangement should be made to enhance employer's share of contribution to 14 percent and payment of retirement gratuity to NPS subscribers as the Central government and some other states already adopted the same. It further requested the state government to submit an application to the Central government to bring NPS subscribers under the state government to be under the Old Pension Scheme (OPS), and make necessary arrangement so as allow employees of the state government to have an option to choose either NPS or OPS.**

**29.6.2022 :** Provisional Employees Association of Mizoram (PEAM) held Executive Meeting on 29.6.2022 @ 1:30 p.m. at Horticulture Conference Hall, Tuikual. Pu Lalchamliana Tlau, President presided the meeting and 26 (twenty six) members attended. The meeting decided the following:

 (i) PEAM General Assembly should be held within this year.

 (ii) Objected the resolution of FMGE&amp;W regarding increase of retiring age  62 years.

 (iii) Immediate follow up action should be taken for implementation of New  Pension Scheme (NPS) for provisional employees.

****1.7.2022 :** Provisional Employees Association of Mizoram (PEAM) in its Press Release issued on 1.7.2022 expressed gratitude to the state government for withdrawing the austerity measures w.e.f., 1.7.2022 which prevented Provisional Employees (PE) and Contract employees under the state government for regularization of their service.**

****7.7.2022 :** National Health Mission (NHM) Employees Union Mizoram (NEUM) held its Executive Meeting on 6.7.2022. The meeting expressed their disappointment over the state government's inaction and lack of initiative on their various demands, such as service regularization, payment of their pending salary of 3 (three) months, medical reimbursement, transfer TA and making provision in order to give preference to NHM staff in any recruitment under Health Department. The meeting decided that all employees of NHM should avail 3 (three) days Mass Casual Leave during 11-13.7.2022 in demand for immediate fulfilment of their various demands.**

****11.7.2022 :** Employees under National Health Mission (NHM) under the aegis of NHM Employees' Union (NEUM) across the state resorted to Mass Casual Leave agitation w.e.f., 11.7.2022 in demand for immediate fulfilment of their various standing demands viz., payment of three months pending salary, provision of transfer TA and Medical Reimbursement facilities for employees of NHM, making provision to give preference to staff of NHM in any recruitment under the state government. They intended to avail Mass Casual Leave till 13.7.2022 and their further course of action will be decided, if no favourable information is received concerning their various demands during their ongoing agitation. It may be mentioned that there are around 2000 (two thousands) employees under NHM across the state.**

 In connection with the intended Mass Casual Leave agitation by employees of NHM, Health Department issued a Press Release on 8.7.2022 which highlighted the various actions taken by the State government in connection with NEUM demands. It also stated that necessary action is being taken for timely payment of their salary for the month of June, 2022. It further stated that during the meeting held under the chairmanship of Principal Secretary, Health &amp; Family Welfare Department on 8.7.2022 @ 3:00 p.m., leaders of NEUM were apprised of the action being taken by the State government on their demands and requested to cancel their intended Mass Casual Leave agitation. It also expressed regret over their intention to go ahead with their Mass Casual Leave agitation.
****12.7.2022****:**Dr. Eric Zomawia, Director National Health Mission (NHM) held a meeting with leaders of NEUM led by Pu Malsawmtluanga Hauhnar, President in connection with NEUM ongoing Mass Casual Leave agitation on 12.7.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at the Office Chamber of Director, NHM. During the meeting, discussion was held on matters relating to the various demands of NEUM and their ongoing agitation, and in this regard, Director NHM requested leaders of NEUM to call off their agitation. In connection the request of Director NHM, leaders of NEUM stated that their ongoing agitation will be called off, if the state government immediately fulfils their various demands or give a written assurance on their demands.**

****13.7.2022 :** (a) Pu Tawnluia, Deputy Chief Minister held a meeting with leaders of NEUM led by Pu Malsawmtluanga Hauhnar, President NEUM last evening i.e., 12.7.2022 @ 6:30 p.m. at the office chamber of Deputy Chief Minister. During the meeting, leaders of NUEM were apprised of necessary action being taken for timely payment of their salary and study being conducted on the status of their employment, and necessary action taken by the state government on their demands. Leaders of NEUM also stated their desire to elevate the interim status of their employment to more constant status. Further, the Deputy Chief Minister requested them to call off their agitation immediately and to resume their normal work w.e.f., 13.7.2022. The meeting was attended by Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Health Minister and concerned departments officials.**

(b) NEUM Executive Meeting was held on 13.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Aizawl East CMO's Conference Hall, Dinthar. The meeting discussed the decision of the above meeting held under the chairmanship of Deputy Chief Minister and as there is nothing in their favour from the State government in the above meeting, they decided to resort to an indefinite strike w.e.f., 14.7.2022.

****14.7.2022 :** Employees under National Health Mission (NHM) under the aegis of NHM Employees' Union (NEUM) resorted to an indefinite strike across the state w.e.f., 14.7.2022 in demand for immediate fulfilment of their various standing demands viz., payment of three months pending salary, provision of transfer TA and Medical Reimbursement facilities for employees of NHM, making provision to give preference to staff of NHM in any recruitment under the State government.**

 In connection with NEUM ongoing strike, Mission Director NHM issued a 'Circular' yesterday evening wherein it directed all Controlling Officers to take necessary action so that employees under NHM resume their normal work on 14.7.2022 and to inform compliance report through their concerned Chief Medical Officer.

 NHM Employees Union of Mizoram (NEUM) also issued a Circular on13.7.2022 wherein it encouraged all their members not to be demoralised due to the possible threat from their controlling authority over ongoing agitation as leaders of NEUM will take necessary action in this regard.

 Pi Esther Lalruatkimi, Commissioner &amp; Secretary, Health Department and Pu Lalramnghaka, Secretary, DP&amp;AR called a Press Conference on 14.7.2022 @ 12:30 p.m. at Secretariat Conference Hall. The Press Conference was attended by concerned departments officials and 5 (five) media persons. During the press conference, the service condition of employees under NHM and necessary actions being taken by the State government in order to solve their difficulties were highlighted.
****15.7.2022:** Employees under National Health Mission (NHM) under the aegis of NHM Employees' Union (NEUM) across the state continued an indefinite strike on 15.7.2022.**

 In connection with their ongoing indefinite strike, NEUM Emergency Meeting was held on 15.7.2022 @ 1:00 p.m. at Bawngkawn South YMA Cultural Centre. Pu Malsawmtluanga Hauhnar, President NEUM presided the meeting and 60 (sixty) members including representatives from each District attended. The meeting decided that the below mentioned demands should be submitted to the State government and their ongoing strike will be called off, if the state government accepts their demands.

 (i) The Study Group formed to examine entitlements/benefits of NEUM  employees should complete the whole process before the end of  September, 2022.

 (ii) Monthly salary should be given regularly.

 (iii) Mizoram Essential Services Maintenance Act should not be declared  against NHM Contractual Staff.

**10.8.2022 :** In pursuance of National Federation of Postal Employees (NEPE) call for strike, All India Postal Employees Union, Mizoram Branch organized strike on 10.8.2022 in protest against the proposed corporatization and privatization of various arms of the department.

**22.9.2022 :** Joint Council of MRB Unions in its Press Release issued on 22.9.2022 stated their intention to join 'Nation Wide RRB Strike' on 23.9.2022, which is called by All India Regional Rural Bank Employees' Association (AIRRBEA). It also stated that they intended to resort to strike in demand of the following:

 (1) Setting up of National Rural Bank of India (NRBI).

 (2) Timely promotion &amp; recruitment, revision of promotion policy at par  with Banking Industry.

 (3) Payment of minimum wages as per 'equal pay equal work' to   casual/part-time workers besides regularizing such staff.

 (4) Proper enforcement of compassionate scheme.

 (5) Provision for deputation of employees from sponsor bank except the   Chairman should be abolished.

 (6) Payment of pension as per the old pension scheme.

 (7) Strongly oppose any attempt to alter the shareholding of RRB.

****23.9.2022:** In pursuance of 'Nation Wide RRB Strike' called by All India Regional Rural Bank Employees' Association (AIRRBEA) in demand for fulfilment of their various standing demands, various branches of Mizoram Rural Bank across the state were closed down on 23.9.2022.**

**28.9.2022 :** Darlawn Venghlun, Aizawl District held Gram Sabha under the aegis of Darlawn Venghlun Village Council on 28.9.2022 in connection with a Criminal Complaint submitted against 5 (five) Darlawn VC members u/s 188/441/447 and Mizoram Forest Act 1955 by DFO, Darlawn. They strongly condemned Pu Lalnunsanga Khawlhring, DFO Darlawn for lodging the said criminal complaint and they passed the following resolutions:

 (i) Darlawn Venglun opposed organising 'Wildlife Week Volley Ball   Tournament' and decided that team/players from Darlawn village should  not participate in the said tournament.

 (ii) Pu Lalnunsanga Khawlhring should not enter into Darlawn Venghlun  area until further notice.

 (iii) Ngurawitlang should be reserved for the public.

 (iv) Any action which hinders development of the public should be opposed  till the very end.

  It may be mentioned that Darlawn Venghlun VC constructed road at Ngurawitlang, which was under Forest Department with an aims to allot house site at the area. Upon learning the said activities, DFO, Darlawn issued stay order to VC Darlawn. However, VC Darlawn continued the road construction by destroying trees within Forest Plantation at the area. In this connection, DFO, Darlawn submitted a criminal complaint against all members of VC Darlawn under u/s 188/441/447 and Mizoram Forest Act 1955.

**28.9.2022 :** Darlawn Venghlun, Aizawl District held Gram Sabha under the aegis of Darlawn Venghlun Village Council on 28.9.2022 in connection with a Criminal Complaint submitted against 5 (five) Darlawn VC members u/s 188/441/447 and Mizoram Forest Act 1955 by DFO, Darlawn. They strongly condemned Pu Lalnunsanga Khawlhring, DFO Darlawn for lodging the said criminal complaint and they passed the following resolutions:

 (i) Darlawn Venglun opposed organising 'Wildlife Week Volley Ball   Tournament' and decided that team/players from Darlawn village should  not participate in the said tournament.

 (ii) Pu Lalnunsanga Khawlhring should not enter into Darlawn Venghlun  area until further notice.

 (iii) Ngurawitlang should be reserved for the public.

 (iv) Any action which hinders development of the public should be opposed  till the very end.

  It may be mentioned that Darlawn Venghlun VC constructed road at Ngurawitlang, which was under Forest Department with an aims to allot house site at the area. Upon learning the said activities, DFO, Darlawn issued stay order to VC Darlawn. However, VC Darlawn continued the road construction by destroying trees within Forest Plantation at the area. In this connection, DFO, Darlawn submitted a criminal complaint against all members of VC Darlawn under u/s 188/441/447 and Mizoram Forest Act 1955.

**09.12.2022 :** Coordination Committee on Traffic Management held a meeting under the chairmanship of Pu Lalchamliana, Hon'ble Home Minister on 9.12.2022 @1:00 p.m. at Secretariat Conference Hall, MINECO. The meeting deliberated on a way to solve traffic congestion during Christmas and New Year, and decided to enforce 'No Vehicle Zone' on 23rd, 24th &amp; 31st December, 2022. Sr. SP, Traffic is entrusted to issue necessary notification in this regard. The meeting also decided to enforce plying of two wheeler taxi in alternate day w.e.f., 1.1.2023 and constitution of Unified Urban Transport/Traffic Management Authority under the chairmanship of UD&amp;PA Minister. The meeting was attended by concerned department officials.

15.12.2022 : The 2nd General Conference of National Health Mission Employees Union Mizoram (NEUM) was held on 15.12.2022 @10:30 a.m., at Vanapa Hall, Aizawl. Dr. R. Lalthangliana, Hon'ble Minister, Health &amp; Family Welfare, etc. graced the Conference as Chief Guest. Pu Malsawmtluanga Hauhnar, President NEUM presided over the General Conference and about 306 (three hundred and six) members were present. The following agenda concerning Government were deliberated and passed:

 (i) To take initiative for the entitlement/claiming of New Pension Scheme for NHM Staff.

 (ii) To take initiative for the implementation of Pay Rationalisation in impartial and transparent manner.

 (iii) To initiate amendment of Recruitment Rules for regularisation of NHM staff.

 (iv) To take initiative for placing of NHM Fund under direct funding.