**26.5.2022 :** Mizoram Government Adhoc Aided High School Teachers' Association (MIGAHTA) held its 12th General Conference at Chanmari YMA Hall, Aizawl on 26.5.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. Pu Lalzirliana, Vice President MIGAHTA led the Conference and Pu Lalchhandama Ralte, Education Minister graced the function as Chief Guest. During the conference, Dr. K. New Israela, General Secretary MIGAHTA submitted a written petition to the Chief Guest which highlighted the resolution passed by MIGAHTA that Mizoram Government Adhoc Aided High Schools should be provincialized. The Conference was attended by around 500 (five hundred) members.

**29.9.2022 :** The 5th General Assembly of Mizoram Government Aided School Association (MIGASA) was held on 29.9.2022 @11:00 am at MZP Conference Hall. Pu C. Lalngaihzuala, President MIGASA presided the occasion and around 80 (eighty) members attended. They passed a resolution that Middle Schools and High Schools which were elevated into Lumpsum Grant in Aid in 2008 by MNF Government should be elevated into Adhoc Aided.
****24.11.2022 :** Mizoram Government Adhoc Aided High School Teachers' Association (MIGAHTA) held Consultation Meeting in connection with their demand to elevate Adhoc Aided High Schools into 'Provincialized Status' on 24.11.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. at Chanmari YMA Hall. Pu David L.C. Chhakchhuak, Vice President, MIGAHTA presided over the meeting and around 100 (one hundred) members attended. During the consultation meeting, discussion was held on their standing demand for elevation of Govt. Adhoc Aided Schools into 'Provincialized Status' and decided to submit a written petition regarding their demand to each constituency MLA and to meet Chief Minister of Mizoram at the earliest convenient time. The meeting further resolved that those schools established by the public to cater the growing demand, which were upgraded into Adhoc Aided on 1.4.2008, should be elevated into 'Provincialized Status' at the earliest. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.**

**30.11.2022 :** Mizoram Government Adhoc Aided Teachers Union (MIGAHTU) held Executive Meeting on 30.11.2022 @11:00 a.m. at Teachers' Inn Conference Hall, Zarkawt. Pu David LC Chhakchhuak, President MIGAHTU presided over the meeting and 17 (seventeen) members attended. The meeting resolved to take the following actions regarding their demand to elevate Government Adhoc Aided Schools into 'Provincialise Status':

 (i) To call a Press Conference at the earliest convenient time.

 (ii) To seek appointment to Chief Minister of Mizoram in connection with  their demand.

 (iii) A Joint Conference of Teachers of Adhoc Aided High School &amp; Middle  School should be held during January, 2023 to discuss their course of  action.