**22.11.2022 :** 15th Annual General Meeting of Mizoram People Forum (MPF) was held on 22.11.2022. Rev. Dr. Vanlalnghaka Ralte, President MPF presided over the first session and Rev. Zionvarmawia Fanchun, Vice President, MPF presided over the second session. During the meeting, MPF constitution was reviewed and made necessary amendment.

**29.11.2022 :** Mizoram People Forum (MPF) held a Meeting to discuss the Draft Memorandum with various Political Parties prepared by MPF on 29.11.2022 @ 10:00 a.m. at CYMA Committee Room. Rev. Vanlalnghaka Ralte, President MPF presided over the meeting and 25 (twenty five) members from MNF, MPCC, ZPM, MPC and BJP attended. The meeting decided that the draft memorandum prepared by MPF should be carefully examined by various political parties and a meeting will be conducted during January, 2022 to finalize the stated draft memorandum.

**12.12.2022 :** Mizoram People Forum (MPF) Governing Board Meeting was held under the chairmanship of Rev. Dr. Vanlalnghaka Ralte, President MPF on 12.12.2022 at Synod Committee Room. It was highlighted in the meeting that a new President is to be appointed as the present MPF President tenure as Synod Moderator is over, and they decided to appoint the new president on 9.1.2023 and the present President will continue to hold the post till appointment of the new President. It was also highlighted in the meeting that leaders of MPF and various Political Parties viz. BJP, MPCC, MNF, PC and ZPM reviewed the ongoing revision of Memorandum of MPF and Political Parties in connection with Election on 29.11.2022 and they will again hold a meeting on 24.1.2023 to discuss the same.