****11.3.2022 :**All Mizoram Cement &amp; Iron Rod Dealers' Association (AMCIRDA) in its Press Release issued on 11.2.2022 stated that Shri. Zakir Hussein who was arrested by Champhai Police for alleged illegal possession of 100 (one hundred) Hawngs of Heroin No. 4 is the business partner of Pu R. Vanlalruata of Melriat who claimed to be the owner of Fiona Enterprise, Salem Veng, Mualpui and Fiona Enterprise, Melriat. It also stated that as per report, Shri. Zakir Hussein is the actual owner of the above mentioned shops. It also stated that they suspected Non-Mizos who are running business under the name of Mizos to be engaged in illegal business and expressed gratitude to Champhai Police for arresting the person and at the same time, urged the authority to award suitable punishment. It further stated that AMCIRDA considered those who allowed using their name by Non-Mizos for running business within the state betray Mizoram and urged them to refrain from practising the same.**

****14.3.2022:** All Mizoram Cement &amp; Iron Rod Dealer's Association (AMCIRDA) in its Press Release issued on 13.3.2022 stated that leaders of AMCIRDA visited the site of collapse of under-construction Lengpui Airport Building the same day. It also stated that during their visit, they observed that the Iron Rod made by three companies' viz. SMS Durgapur, Trishakti Durgapur and Zeecon Durgapur, were used in the construction work and they are below the prescribed standard of Quality Control of Cement &amp; Iron Rod Committee, Govt. of Mizoram. It also observed that they used sub-standard size of Iron Rod. However, Dalmia Cement, one of the best quality cement within the State, was used in the above construction work.**