**21.1.2022 :** Information received stated that Mizo Fed Tanker B/R No. MZ-01 E-0374, driven by Kazi Saidul Islam S/o Kazimontaz Ali of Udarbond Cachar, Assam, dashed with one Sumo B/R No. MZ-07 4713 on 18.1.2022 @12:30 p.m. at the outskirt of Mausen, Lunglei District. In this connection, both parties amicably settled the matter on the spot and the Tanker driver paid Rs. 9500/- for repair of the damaged vehicle. However, Lalhriatpuia driver of Fel Fel Sumo who was also at the spot physically assaulted Kazi Saidul Islam, Tanker driver. In this connection, Pu Jeffrey Lalremruata, Branch Manager, Mizo Fed-POL, Lunglei lodged an FIR at Lunglei PS today, i.e., 21.1.2022 and accordingly registered a case vide Lunglei PS Case No. 9/2022 Dt. 21.1.2022 u/s 341/323/352 IPC and investigation of the case is being underway.

 In connection with the above incident, Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union (APMU) organized blockade of Mizoram bound Oil Tanker at Ram Nagar Oil Depot, Assam in the afternoon of 21.1.2022. Information received stated, APMU demanded payment of compensation and medical expenses to victim driver, and return of Rs. 9500/- (already paid by the victim driver to the sumo driver).
 Mizoram Oil Tanker Drivers Union (MOTDA) also held meeting on the afternoon @3:00 p.m. at MOTDA Office, Thuampui in connection with the stated incident. Pu Romel Lalruatdika presided the meeting and 6 (six) members attended. The meeting decided to extend support to APMU demand as per the latter's request. The meeting also decided not to prepare Challan and Indent w.e.f.22.1.2022.

**24.1.2022 :** Champhai District Tipper Owners Association in its Press Release issued on 24.1.2022 expressed disappointment over the agitation being organized by Champhai NGO Coordination Committee (NGOCC) in demand for cancellation of DC, Champhai Transfer Order. In this connection, they urged all members of Champhai District Tipper Owners Association not to take part in any action taken by Champhai NGOCC as it could have adverse impact on the unity of residents of Champhai.

 A similar Press Release was issued on the same day by Trade Vehicle Owner Association, Kelkang, Champhai District; Public Carrier Association, Vaphai, Champhai District; Ngur Transport Union; Zotlang Goods Carrier Association; 407 Truck Owner's Association Champhai; Melbuk Developement And Charitable Society; Zote Border Transport Union; Tlangsam Motor Owner's Association.

**3.2.2022 :** A joint meeting of All Mizoram Petroleum Dealer Association (AMPEDA), Mizoram Oil Tanker Union (MOTU), Mizoram Oil Tanker Driver Association (MOTDA) and concerned officials of MIZOFED was held yesterday, i.e., **2.2.2022** @ 2:00 p.m. at Zothan Auto Works, Bawngkawn, Aizawl. Pu K. Lalnghakliana, Chairman, AMPEDA, presided the meeting and 14 (fourteen) members attended. During the meeting, discussion was made on new carrying/transportation rate fixed by IOC. The meeting decided to send a written petition to IOC with a request to reconsider hike in the carrying rate of Oil as the new rate is more or less similar to the present rate which is in force w.e.f. 2016.

****14.2.2022 :** Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CDLIP) a conglomerate of various commercial vehicles related associations within Champhai District intended to organize vehicle rally/march from Zote/Zotlang, Champhai upto DC Office, Champhai on 16.2.2022 in protest against the incumbent DC, Champhai i.e., Pi Maria CT Zuali and due to the following :-**

(i) To protest labelling of Champhai as 'smuggler city' in various social media  platforms.

(ii) To protest baseless accusation of residents of Champhai to be involved in smuggling.

(iii) Champhai District required a DC who will facilitate better coordination among  various departments within Champhai District.

 Input received stated that leaders of CDLIP are yet to finalize the date &amp; time and route for the protest vehicle march/rally.

****14.2.2022:** In continuation to our DSI Part-III (d) Dt. 14.2.2022, Champhai District Lirthei Inzawmkhawm Pawl (CDLIP), a conglomerate of various commercial vehicles' related associations within Champhai District, held a meeting under the chairmanship of Pu HC Liantluanga, President CDLIP on 15.2.2022 @ 11:00 a.m. at the residence of Pu Hmangaihzuala, CDLIP Executive Committee Member, Ruantlang, Champhai. The meeting decided not to proceed with their plan of organizing vehicle rally/march in protest against the incumbent DC, Champhai i.e., Pi Maria CT Zuali, as per the request of Sub-Headquarters YMA, Champhai. However, they intend to review their course of action, if the incumbent DC, Champhai still continues to hold her office on 1.3.2022.**

**21.2.2022:** Reference to our DSI Item No. Part-III, Dt.3.2.2022, Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum (comprising of All Mizoram Petroleum Dealers' Association, Mizoram Oil Tanker Owners Union, Mizoram Oil Tanker Drivers Association and MIZOFED), has decided not to transport any petroleum products into Mizoram during 23.2.2022 - 25.2.2022. In this connection, a request was sent to the DGM (Ops), Indian Oil Corporation Limited, on 4.2.2022 to find a solution and to arrive at a practical and workable rate regarding transportation rate of petroleum products and no positive response has been received from the IOCL till date. The Forum has been demanding for hike in the carrying rate of petroleum products and has conveyed their non-acceptance to the terms and conditions of the EOI set by the IOC as it will result to losses for all the above mentioned-parties and all other stakeholders.

****21.2.2022:** Ref. to DSI item No. Part-III (a) Dt. 21.2.2022 Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum halted transporting petroleum products into Mizoram w.e.f. 23.2.2022 in demand for hike in carrying rate of petroleum products. In this connection, 7 (seven) leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum led by Pu K. Lalnghakliana their President visited Vairengte today to take stock of the situation. Information received stated that no vehicle carrying petroleum products entered the state today.**

****24.2.202:** In continuation of our DSI Part-III (a) Dt. 23.2.2022, Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum (MITF) continued halting of transporting petroleum products into Mizoram on 24.2.2022. In this connection, 8 (eight) leaders of MITF led Pu K. Lalnghakliana their chairman met Pu K. Lalrinliana, Supply Minister at the latter's Office Chamber today @ 3:30 p.m. During the meeting, leaders of MITF requested the Minister to take necessary action for hike in carrying rate of petroleum products. In this regard, the Minister assured to look into the matter and take possible necessary action with IOCL.**

 Information received stated that authorities of IOCL led by Chief General Manager, IOCL arrived at Aizawl today and a meeting was held with leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum today's evening @ 5:20 p.m. at Mizofed Office, MINECO to discuss carrying rate of petroleum products. The meeting is still continuing at the time of writing the report.

**24.2.2022**

In continuation to our DSI Part-III Dt. 24.2.2022, leaders of IOCL led by Pu K.B. Nela, Chief Manager, Retail Sales Operation, IOCL and 9 (nine) leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporters Forum led by Pu K. Lalnghakliana, Chairman, held a Joint Meeting at MIZOFED Office, MINECO on 24.2.2022 @ 5:20 p.m. It was reported that the two parties could not arrived at an amicable agreement in connection with the latter's demand i.e. hike in carrying rate of petroleum products into Mizoram.
 However, input received stated that Mizoram Transporter Forum intended not to continue their 3- days long suspension of import of Oil (Petrol &amp; Diesel) into Mizoram and they will resume transporting petroleum products into Mizoram w.e.f. tomorrow, i.e., 26.2.2022. Their future course of action will be considered in a meeting, which will be held in due course.

****4.4.2022:** As per input received from leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporter Forum (MITF), the IOCL refused to give oil to their members since 1.4.2022 as per the previous rate as the existing contract/agreement on carrying rates between MITF &amp; IOCL has ended/expired on 31.3.2022. It also stated that MITF refused to sign the new offered carrying rate i.e., Rs. 4.775054 P RTKM which is reportedly lower than the previous rate i.e., Rs. 5.126055 P RTKM, due to which MITF tankers are being reportedly denied from taking loads by the IOCL. At the same time, Private Transporters comprising of 22 (twenty two) firms submitted Expression of Interest (IOE) as per the new rate to IOCL and they were accepted as Technically Qualified bidder by IOCL. In this connection, 2 (two) Non-Mizo tankers were blocked by leaders of MITF from entering into Mizoram on 2.4.2022 and are still stranded near the inter-state border.**

 Information further received from leaders of MITF stated that they intend to resume carrying of loads for the time being as new challans have been issued by IOCL without specifying the rate or signing of any agreement. Input received also stated that leaders of MITF received information from IOCL regarding increased of carrying rate by 0.2 on 4.4.2022. At the same time, leaders of MITF assured to stand firm on their standing demand.

****7.4.2022 :**  Pu Zothanmawia, Secretary, FCS &amp; CA, held a meeting with leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporters' Forum (MITF) on 7.4.2022 at his Office Chamber in connection with their ongoing disagreement/dispute with authorities of IOCL regarding new oil carrying rate. The Secretary requested them to call off their agitation/boycott and to resume carrying of petroleum oil into the State.**

 Thereafter, leaders of Mizoram IOCL Transporters' Forum (MITF) held a meeting to consider the Secretary's request 3:00 p.m. at Mahindra Generator Showroom, Ramhlun South, Aizawl. Pu Lalbiakzama, Vice President, MITF presided the meeting and 8 (eight) members attended. The meeting called off their boycott due to immense hardships it causes to the public and decided to resume carrying of oil into the State. Subsequently, 22 (twenty two) IOCL Tankers stranded at Vairengte Oil Depot due to the blockade organized by MITF were released this evening @ 6:00 p.m. A Press Release in this regard was issued today.

****2.5.2022 :** Lunglei District Truck Owner Association (LDTDA) held its Executive Committee Meeting on 2.5.2022 @ 7:00 a.m. at LDTDA Office, Lunglawn, Lunglei in connection with transporting of rice directly to Tlabung godown from Zuangtui Godown, Aizawl. Pu Lalrammawia, President LDTDA presided the meeting and 40 (forty) members attended. The meeting opined carrying of rice directly to Tlabung godown from Zuangtui Godown by the carrying Contractor (without transiting at Lunglei FCI godown) as an attempt to cut off their means of earning. In this regard, they decided to organize blockade of Trucks (who transported rice to Tlabung) on their way back from Tlabung near Saizakawn from the evening of 2.5.2022. However, information received stated that leaders of LDTDA decided to cancel the above intended blockade as Pi Ramdinliani, Director, FCS&amp;CA informed them that one time immediate arrangement was made regarding direct transportation of rice to Tlabung due to the concern about sudden onset of monsoon and assured that the same will not happen again in future.**

**15.7.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Driver's Association General Headquarters served a letter to President, Hachhek Kuhva Chingtu Association on 14.7.2022 which stated that 2 (two) Trucks B/R No. MZ-01 V-5972 and MZ-01 V-5750 were detained by them at Zamuang Zero Point on 7.7.2022 @ 3:00 a.m. and threatened drivers of the detained trucks of burning their trucks. It strongly condemned the said act and expressed their desire that such incident should not recur.

****19.7.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Drivers' Association (MTDA), Mizoram Truck Owners Association (MTOA) and Vairengte Border Trade Association (BTA) held a Joint Meeting on 19.7.2022 @ 2:00 p.m. at Vairengte Bangla YMA Hall. The meeting discussed how to carry out border trade at the inter-state border and the meeting reportedly decided that all goods to be exported outside the state should be transported as per the serial maintain by MTDA, MTOA and BTA.**

**01.8.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Drivers Association (MTDA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 30.7.2022 stated that on 28.7.2022, a Tipper B/R No. MZ-01 T-1982 owned by Pi Lalhnemmawii of Thuampui, which was driven by a non-Mizo driver, dashed with one Truck carrying supply rice from Bualpui, driven by Pu F. Laldinpuia of Sihphir, MTDA Joint Secretary, who was proceeding towards Aizawl in between Buichali and Sairang. It also stated that due to alleged rash and negligence driving of the stated non-Mizo driver, he severely hit the vehicle driven by Pu Laldinpuia of Sihphir which resulted in loss of precious live. It further expressed regret over the stated incident and urged the concerned authority to find out the non-Mizo driver, who fled away from the place of incident and to award him suitable punishment.

****26.8.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Owner's Association (MTOA), Mizoram Truck Driver Association (MTDA) and Carrying Contractors' Association (CCA) held a Joint OB meeting on 26.8.2022 @ 3:00 p.m. at MTOA Committee Room. Pu B. Zarzova, President MTOA presided the meeting and 11 (eleven) members attended. Discussion was held on weight shortage of load when weigh at Zuangtui and Serchhip, Supply Special Permit and carrying of fertilizer etc. The meeting is still continuing at the time of writing the report.**

**29.8.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Owner's Association (MTOA), Mizoram Truck Driver Association (MTDA) and Carrying Contractors' Association (CCA) Joint OB meeting held on 26.8.2022 resolved the following:

 (i) In connection with frequent occurrence of huge shortage of their   consignments' weight at Zuangtui, Serchhip and Saitual Godown, the  concerned authority should be requested to install new weighbridge at  Zuangtui godown and to immediately conduct inspection of  Weighbridge at Saitual and Serchhip godown.

 (ii) The action being taken by CCA in connection with issuance of supply  special permit should be awaited.

 (iii) In connection with carrying of fertilizer, the decision of Joint Meeting  should be strictly followed.

 (iv) A letter should be sent to Cachar Truck Driver/Owner with a request to  inform drivers under them to carefully drive their vehicles within  Mizoram.

**11.10.2022 :** Mizoram Truck Driver's Association (MTDA) General Headquarters in its Press Release issued on 11.10.2022 stated as per the arrangement of Ministry of Sports &amp; Culture, All India Motorbike Expedition (AIME) organized "Freedom Moto Ride" w.e.f., 9.10 2022, wherein 75 (seventy five) riders including a mizo lady named Rosalyn Lianhmingthangi are being on tour to visit all states within the country. It also stated that the said riders will visit Mizoram on 12.10.2022 and in this regard, they appealed all drivers to extend warm welcome to the riders.

**25.10.2022:** Mizoram Tipper Association (Drivers &amp; Owners) in its Press Release issued on 24.10.2022 stated that a meeting of Cachar DC and SP; Kolasib DC and SP; Mizoram Tipper Association; Cachar Tipper Association and various business organizations held on 10.7.2018 decided that non-Mizos vehicles and drivers should not take local trip within Mizoram. It also stated that they will continue to strictly enforce the said meeting decision and requested all non-Mizo Drivers and Vehicles not to engage in taking local trip within Mizoram. It further stated that necessary action will be taken against the violators.