****Point No. 1 Status of all agreements signed by the State Government****

****1. Signing of MoS between Hmar Peoples’ Convention (HPC) and the State of Mizoram**: In 1986 the Hmar Peoples Convention (HPC) was formed with the sole objective of the creation of an Autonomous District Council (ADC) for the Hmars within Mizoram. Simultaneously, extreme elements of the HPC cadres took up arms and resorted to violent unlawful activities like abducting and killing of the Mizoram Police personnel, extorting money etc. and thus jeopardising the law and order situation of the State particularly in the Hmar dominated area.The Government of Mizoram managed to contain the activities of the HPC militants resulting in the signing of a Peace Accord on 27th July 1994. The HPC militants surrendered formally to the Govt. of Mizoram as per the provision of this Accord and these persons were given financial grants for their rehabilitation etc. The Govt. of Mizoram also agreed to set up the Sinlung Hills Development Council (SHDC) for the socio-economic upliftment of the people living in the Hmar dominated areas. Accordingly adhoc Chairman and members constituting the council were even appointed by the Govt. of Mizoram from among the leaders of the erstwhile HPC set up. Peace was thus restored in Mizoram after the signing of the Accord.**

 Sinlung Hills Implementation Demand Committee (SHIDC) filed a petition at the Gauhati High Court, Aizawl Bench stating that the Govt. did not fulfilled the terms mentioned in the MoS relating to clause no. 5.1 and 5.3 articles of the MoS relating to the used of Hmar language as a medium of instruction up to the primary level and recognition of Hmar language as one of the major language of the state of Mizoram and the opening of SDO(C) with different departments and the up-gradation of PHC Sakawrdai to thirty bedded CHC.

 The Gauhati High Court, Aizawl Bench in its judgements passed on 4.9.2017 direct the State of Mizoram to comply with clause no 5.1. and 5.3 of the MoS and to act upon these two clauses at the earliest and preferably within a period of one(1) year from the date of the judgement order.

****2. Signing of MoS between HPC(D) and the State of Mizoram** : However, there were still a disgruntled section of the HPC set up, led by Lalhmingthanga Sanate, the then General Secretary of the HPC who were not ready to accept the Peace Accord. Lalhmingthanga Sanate formed a militant outfit called the Hmar Peoples Convention -Democratic (HPC-'D') in 1996 with its nerve centre at Hmarkhawlian (Lakhipur) in Cachar District of Assam. The HPC(D) was formed with the political objective of renewing demand for Autonomous District Council(ADC) under the active patronage of NSCN(IM). He claimed himself leader of the un-subdued HPC faction still striving for a separate homeland for the Hmars.**

 The HPC(D) by Lalhmingthanga Sanate, HPC(D) split into two factions on 29.9.2011. One faction is led by H.Zosangbera, Gen. Secretary and another faction by the deposed President Lalhmingthanga Sanate.

** **MoS was signed by the State of Mizoram and HPC(D) H.Zosangbera faction on 2.4.2018 and the terms of agreement under MoS is slow and steadily being implemented**_._**

****3. Signing of MoS between BNLF and the State of Mizoram :**The BNLF was formed on 9.11.1996 at Tuirum to strengthen the repeated demands of Autonomous District Council by Bru National Union for Bru people living in western belt of Mizoram The Govt. of Mizoram and BNLF after 12 rounds of talks agreed on 12 points of settlement on 26th April, 2005. And in accordance with t5he clause of the agreement, Bru’s living in refugee camps of Tripura are being repatriated to Mizoram, the final repatriation of which will begin on 01.10.2019.**

****4. Signing of MoS between BLFM and the State of Mizoram :**There is no formal****signing of MoS between the Government of Mizoram and BLFM uptil now, but there has been a series of Cadres surrender beginning on 11.12.2013 with the surrender of 2 Cadres and the last of which was on 26.10.2006 with the surrender of 804 Cadres.**