22.11.2024 On 22.11.2024 at around 11:00 AM, CID (SB) information received from a reliable source stating that some unknown persons strongly suspected of possessing contraband drugs which was to be dispatched at Electric Veng from Champhai Sumo Stand, Aizawl. On reaching the spot, found 01 (one) suspected person namely John Lalchungnunga (28) S/o Malsawmkima of Venghlui, Aizawl who was carrying one percel Divya water filter (written Zuali, Dinthar, Aizawl ph. No.9233736124 on the percel) and detained him. 01 (one) no. of soap case concealed inside Divya water filter which was packed in transparent polythene. Weight of suspected heroin was taken and totally weights 13 grams value of Rs.39,000/-. The accused was arrested in front of witnesses.

26.11.2024 On 26.11.2024 at 01:00 AM at Cheuva Hill, Thuampui, Aizawl opposite to Presbyterian Pastor Quarters, CID (SB) operation team intercepted a white Bolero vehicle bearing registration No.MZ-04-A-9872 coming from Tlangsam Champhai and one pick-up truck B/R No.MZ-06-6021. CID (SB) operation team seized 664 nos. soap cases each containing orange powder suspected heroin, weighing a total of 8.058 Kgs v/o Rs.2,41,74,000/- in the local market rate. Hence, Special Narcotic PS Case No.46/2024 dt.26.11.2024 was registered. The following three persons were arrested in front of witnesses.

 1. Lalrohnuna Fanai (33) s/o ST Kapa of Tlangsam, Champhai.

 2. Lalmuanzuala (41) s/o H. Bulliana (L) of Tlangsam, Champhai.

 3. Tlanghmingthangi (43) d/o Hrangkianlova of Tlangsam, Champhai.

29.11.2024 On 28.11.2024 @ 12:00 PM, SI C. Vanlalnghaka, Champhai-PS on receiving telephonic information which states that they had detained one luggage at JSL Sumo Counter, Chanem Building, Vengthlang Champhai suspected to contain some contraband items. At around 12:20 PM, it was found that the luggage contained six (6) soap cases containing brown powder suspected Heroin weighing 75 grams approximately valued at Rs.2,25,000/-. Lalhmunsangi (30) d/o Lalremruata of Vengthlang North, Champhai was arrested and CPI-PS Case No.245/2024 dt.28.11.2024 u/s 21(b) ND&amp;PS Act was registered.

04.12.2024 On 04.12.2024 @ 9:20 PM, DSB Staff, Lunglei and Lunglei PS Staff jointly performed duty at outskirt of Pukpui near Zirchhunga Tear Farm, seized 4 soap cases (42.38 grams) suspected Heroin from the joint illegal possession of Lalremfela (32) S/o Sangmawia of Durtlang, Leitan, Aizawl and David Lallawmawma (32) s/o Zonunsanga of Durtlang, Aizawl. Hence, Lunglei-PS C/No.213/24 dt.05.12.2024 u/s 21(b)/25/29 ND&amp;PS Act was registered.

19.12.2024 On 19.12.2024 @ 9:15 AM, conducted a random vehicle check at the outskirts of Mualkawi at Zokhawthar Road a vehicle revealed 12 bundles wrapped in yellow polythene, each containing 60 smaller bundles of 10 blue sachets. Each sachet held 202 tablets (red &amp; green) amounting to a total of 1,21,000 tablets suspected Methamphetamine weiging 14.046 kg amounting Rs.1,82,59,000/-. The contraband and the vehicle were seized and one passenger Lallianmanga (40) s/o Dohranga of Khampat, Myanmar residing at Khawmawi, Myanmar was arrested at the spot. Hence, Champhai-PS Case No.257/24 dt.19.12.2024 u/s 22(c), 25 &amp; 29 of the ND&amp;PS Act was registered.

06.05.2025 On 06/05/25 based on written FIR submitted by J.Lalramnghaka 8/0 JH Blakdawla of Secretary, Vengthlang Branch Y.M.A, Champhai. As per the FIR, on 29/04/25 some contraband items suspected to be Methamphetamine (about 47.511 kgs) was seized at Zemabawk Aizawl from the possession of Samuela Sto Hrangluta and T. Vaniaicheuliana S/o Thangchhunga both of Vengthlang Champhai. The said two persons possessed Bank A/c, Birth Certificate and Driving Licence without having Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC) and that it is clearly known that they are refugee from Myanmar who settled at Vengthlang Champhai in a rented house and requsted OC Champhal to take necessary actions. Hence, Champhai PS C/No-64/25 D1 06/05/25 U/ 339/337/340(2) BNS was registered.

****2025****

18.01.2025 On 17.01.2025 @ 4:20 PM, ASI Lallawmzuala submitted Suo-Moto FIR stating that verbal information was received from 42 Assam Rifles, Zokhawthar Post conducting checking at the outskirt of Melbuk Village, two female suspected to conceal some contraband items were detained at their checkpost viz. Malsawmpuii (31) D/o Lianchia (L) of Electric Veng, Champhai and Lalparmawii (18) D/o Lalpianthanga of Vengthar, Champhai were confronted and informed their rights u/s 50 of ND&amp;PS Act to conduct search before Magistrate or Gazetted Officer but they declined a search in front of Magistrate or Gazetted Officer and voluntarily took out the contraband items by themselves in presence of female police and two civilian independent witnesses. Then, Malsawmpuii took out 3 (three) soap cases and Lalparmawii 1 (one) soap case, total 4 (four) soap cases containing brown powder suspected Heroin (46 grams) v/o Rs.1,38,000/-. The two accused were arrested after informing their ground of arrest and intimation was given to their relatives. Hence, ZKTR-PS C/No.03/25 dt.17.01.2025 u/s 21(B)/29 ND&amp;PS Act was registered.

21.01.2025 On 20.01.2025, SI C. Lalsangliana of Champhai PS submitted enquiry report to pursue conducting patrolling along the bank of Tiau River (Indo-Myanmar Border). He and his team intercepted and stopped a white Bolero Pick-Up B/R No.AS-10-AC-9747 on suspicious grounds. The vehicle was driven by spare driver Salman Hussain (21) S/o Nazir Uddin of Moinala Village, Karimganj District, Assam travelling from Bulfek, Myanmar towards Mizoram at around 3:30 PM. Search was conducted in the presence of reliable witnesses viz. Ramthianghlima (32) S/o Lalthansanga (L) and Lalfakzuala (38) S/o Lalawmpuia both residents of Zote Village, eighteen (18) soap cases containing a brown powder suspected heroin (218 grams) amounting Rs.6,54,000/- was recovered and the accused viz. Foyjul Jalal (23) S/o Abdul Hamid of Islampur, Karimganj District, Assam and Salman Hussain (21) S/o Nazir Uddin of Moinala Village, Karimganj District, Assam was arrested. Hence, Champhai PS C/No.09/2025 u/s 21(b)/25/29 of ND&amp;PS Act was registered.

13.02.2025 A suo moto fir is received from SI Zirthanga Pachuau stating that on 13.02.2025 at around 08:20 AM, while he was doing morning walk in between Zokhawthar and Melbuk Village, he met one car Hyryder B/R No.MZ-01-AB-2405 maroon colour parking on the road side in between Zokhawthar and Melbuk Village (about 1KM from Zokhawthar) and found two unknown persons (male and female) were doing packing of contraband items suspected to be heroin inside the vehicle. On asking about their packing, the unknown male person threw away the items packing suspected to be heroin on the road side. He detained the unknown two persons and called support staff of zokhawthar Police Station and YMA leaders of Zokhawthar Village. After the arrival of our staff including women constable and YMA leaders, the two unknown two persons were identified as Thuampuia (47) S/o Lalruaia and Rochhuanmawii (54) w/o Lalramngaia, both of Dinthar Veng, Champhai and checking of the items thrown suspected to be Heroin was conducted and recovered 20 soap cases containing white and brown powder suspected to be of Heroin No.4. Weighing was done and the contraband items suspected to be heroin No.4 (231 grams) having estimated value of Rs.6,93,000/-. Seizure memo was prepared and the said contraband items suspected to be heroin weighing (231 grams) and the vehicle used for conveyance (car hyryder b/r No. MZ 01 AB 2405 Maroon colour) were seized from the joint possession of Thuampuia (47) s/o Lalruaia and Rochhuanmawii (54) w/o Lalramngaia both of Dinthar Veng, Champhai in presence of Civilian witnesses (YMA Leaders) namely Lallungmuana (30) S/o Lalduhawma and Vanlalngurchhawna (42) s/o JH Lalbiakthanga (L) both of zokhawthar. The said accused Thuampuia (47) s/o Lalruaia and Rochhuanmawii (54) w/o Lalramngaia both of Dinthar Veng Champhai were formally arrested after informing their ground of arrest and arrest intimation was also given to their relatives. Hence, ZKTR-PS C/No. 18/25 dt.13.02.2025 u/s 21(b)/25/29 ND&amp;PS Act was registered.