*** Bangladesh Government - KNF dialogue:**

 After a series of online meeting, "First round of Physical Peace Talk" between Kuki-Chin National Front/Army (KCNA) and Government of Bangladesh (GoB) represented by the Peace Committee was held on 5th November, 2023 at Hmunlai village, near Ruma bazar, Bandarbun District, Bangladesh. Although no definite agreements were made, the meeting, agreed to maintained cease-fire between both the parties until the next peace talk. The KNF has submitted a draft of possible and proposed peace agreement with 6(six) point demands to the Prime Minister of Bangladesh through Peace Establishment Committee. The second round of bilateral physical meeting between the two parties was conducted on 05.03.2024 at Bethel Para Communiuty Centre in Ruma Upazila of Bandar district. This meeting marks a pivotal step towards resolving a conflict that has displaced hundreds and stoked tension in the region. The meeting spearheaded by Zilla Parishad Chairman Kya Shew hla, the 13 member delegation discussed significant issues, including the release of KNF prisoners and the non-return of Bawm community members from Mizoram until a peace agreement is secured. The meeting not only reaffirmed the parties commitment to peace but also illustrated the potential for constructive dialogue in addressing longstanding issues. The next round of talks is not fixed yet till date.

 On 2nd April, 2024 at around 9:30 p.m. of Bangladesh Time (BDT), around 25 (twenty five) armed cadres of Kuki-Chin National Army/ Kuki-Chin National Front (KNA/KNF) led by S/S Major Zorina Bawm of Sunsawng Village robbed Sonali Bank (one of the leading banks in Bangladesh) of Ruma Branch, Bandarban, Bangladesh. They looted about Takka 1 crore 58 lakhs from the bank taking more than an hour to complete the robbery. The Bank Manager, Nizam Uddin was abducted while the bank security personnel's arms consisting of 8 SKS rifles (also known as Chinese rifle), 2 Sub Machine Guns, 4 Shotguns and 415 rounds of ammunition were snatched away by the KNA/KNF cadres. It is reported that, the bank is located in the UNO residential area and is less than 2 kilometers away from the Ruma Army Cantonment (28-BIR). Fortunately, the abducted Bank Manager, Nizam Uddin was released on 04.04.2024 at around 7:30 p.m. (BDT) from the captivity without demanding any ransom money.

 It is further learnt that 2 hours after the robbery, a gunfight took place between the cadres of KNA/KNF and Bangladesh Army at Khamtam Para of Rowangchari Upazila at 11:30 pm (BDT). In the incident, one Bangladesh Army soldier, Shafiqul Islam (25) (Soldier No. 4517700) r/o Mohadevpur, Naogaon District, Bangladesh received bullet injuries and was airlifted to Chittagong Combined Military Hospital.

 

 Inputs also stated that on 3rd April 2024 at around 12:08 p.m. (BDT), Sonali Bank and Krishi Bank of Thanchi Branches, Bandarban District were also robbed by a group 25 (twenty five) armed cadres of KNA/KNF led by S/S Major Sangpa Bawm. These KNA cadres used 3 vehicles to get to the targeted banks from Baktlai village and reportedly looted Takka-17 lakhs 50 thousand from the two banks (Tk. 15 lakh from Sonali Bank and Tk. 2 lakh 50 thousand from Krishi Bank). The two banks are reported to be located between the Thanchi Police Station and Thanchi Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) (38-Battalion) Zone Headquarters.

 There are no reports of injuries sustained by the KNA/KNF cadres in the incidents while few bank security personnel, Ansar personnel and police constables are reported to sustain minor injuries.

 Consequent upon these incidents, the Peace Establishment Committee on 3rd April, 2024 expressed its strong condemnation against the bank robberies carried out by the suspected KNA/KNF cadres. Mr. Kya Shew Hla, Zilla Parishad Chairman and Chairman of the peace dialogue in its Press Statement stated that the Peace Establishment Committee is deeply saddened and angered by the incidents and that all the ongoing efforts of the peacekeeping committee have been put into question. He added that KNF did not honored the agreements of the peace dialogue to refrain from all types of armed activities and instead continue to attack, kidnap and extort local residents sporadically at different times and as such the peace dialogue will not be continued at the moment.

 S/S Colonel Solomon, Chief of Media and Intelligence Wing, Kuki-Chin National Front (KNF) in his supposedly justification of the incidents claimed that neither the Peace Establishment Committee or the Bangladesh Government is taking the demands of the KNF seriously and alleged the Bangladesh Government of not fulfilling any terms of the meeting including released of political prisoners, stoppage of usage of civilians as porter by the army and dismantling of army camps at Chhimtlangpui and Pankhiang Villages of Bandarban District.

 It is further learnt that on 6th April 2024, the Hon’ble Home Minister of Bangladesh, Shri. Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal visited Ruma Upazila Parishad, Ansar Barracks, Sonali Bank and Upazila Mosque and told the reporters that the government will take a tough stance on the issue and that security forces will act appropriately. He later visited Bandarban where he attended a meeting with senior officials of the Bandarban administration, public representatives and law and order forces at Bandarban Circuit House. Bangladesh Army Chief, General SM Shafiuddin Ahmed, also visited Ruma and Bandarban Cantonment on 06.04.2024 and told the reporters that no terrorist will be exempted.

 On 7th April, 2024, Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) of Bangladesh arrested Cheusim Bawm (60), President of Bandarban Upazila Division Committee of KNF, from Sharan Para of Sualok Union, Bandarban and reportedly recovered two arms from his possession while conducting search upon his residence.

 On 15th April, 2024, KNA/KNF and Bangladesh Army confront in a gun fight at Ruangchari, Banderban Distt, Bangladesh. In this incident 7 (seven) Bangladesh Army died and 20 got injured. Consequent upon this incident, One civilian couple along with their child was abducted, civilians of Hmunlai village fled to the jungle for safety.

 Further reliable inputs received stated that all the leaders and cadres of KNA/KNF are still stationed in Bangladesh at the moment. However, once the Bangladesh Government conducted combing exercises, the possibility of entry of KNA/KNF cadres or influx of refugees from Bangladesh into Mizoram could not be ruled out.

**Myanmar issues :**

**DSI 26.3.2024**_:_

Report has been received lately that the number of Myanmar Nationals seeking refuge in Mizoram due to the order of compulsory joining of the Myanmar Army by the State Administrative Council (Myanmar Army) have significantly increase in the past week. It is reported that as many as 763 (seven hundred sixty three) Myanmar Nationals had fled Myanmar and entered Zokhawthar in the hope of escaping the order as of 18.03.2024. These Myanmar Nationals are mainly from Tahan, Pingkung and Letpanchaung of Myanmar and stayed with their friends and families living in the 5 (five) refugee camps at Zokhawthar. The numbers of these Myanmar Nationals trying to escape compulsory joining of the Myanmar Army and entered Mizoram are likely to increase in the coming days.

**SR 03.04.2024** :

On 25.03.2024 and 26.03.2024 reports has been received that a number of Myanmar Nationals from Khumi community had entered Mizoram and reached Khawmawi Village, Lunglei District It is further learnt that during the same time, another group of Myanmar Nationals from Khumi communities had reached Diltlang South Village, Lawngtlai District. These Myanmar Nationals reportedly are mainly from Paletwa Township, Mee Zar Chaung, Yat Chaung Wa and Ma Au Chaung of Chin State Myanmar and entered Mizoram through Kakichhuah Village, Lawngtlai District. It is reported that these Myanmar Nationals claimed to seek asylum in Mizoram consequent upon the Arakan Army taking over Rakhine State and even Paletwa Township under Chin State and the subsequent inhuman treatment of the Khumi Communities by the Arakan Army. 
 Presently, these Myanmar Nationals are staying with their friends and families who had settled in Khawmawi Village as well as Diltlang South Village. These Myanmarese who could hardly understand Mizo language reportedly choose to proceeded and stayed in these villages due to the presence of Khumi families who settled in these villages with whom they could communicate. Temporary shelters for these Myanmar Nationals are being constructed by the respective local leaders. It is further reported that the 20 (twenty) adult men who had reached Khawmawi Village had left for their respective villages in Myanmar to collect their properties and their scheduled return to Khawmawi Village is not clear at the moment.

 It is pertinent to mention that the Khumi National Defence Army (KNDA) did not appreciate the hoisting of Arakan Army flag at Paletwa Township by Arakan Army. The Khumis had been claiming the areas of Paletwa Township as their ancestral home and latest inputs suggested that the Khumis from different part of the country are being recruited to join the Khumi National Defence Army (KNDA) to overthrow the Arakan Army from Paletwa Township.

**DSI 22.04.2024**_:_

Information received stated that on 19.04.2024 at around 04:30 p.m., Assam Rifles authorities of Zokhawthar Company Operating Base (COB) had reportedly informed the general public that the Friendship Bridge over Tiau River which connects India and Myanmar will be sealed indefinitely. Upon receiving the information, people on both sides of the bridge (India and Myanmar) had gathered near the bridge which however, was immediately dispersed by the district police without any major law and order issue. The bridge was later opened on 20.04.2024 from 01:00 p.m. even though movement of the public/residents across the gate is regulated by the Assam Rifles. Further information received stated that 23rd Sector Assam Rifles DIG and other officials who visited Zokhawthar on 20.04.2024 interacted with Zokhawthar Village leaders, during which the Assam Rifles officials reportedly informed the residents of Zokhawthar that the Friendly Bridge will temporarily stays open till the end of April 2024 after which it will be sealed from 1st May, 2024 as per instruction from higher authorities. In this regard, there is no report of protest or agitation from the public at the moment and the situation is closely monitored.

**L & O :**

**DSI 09.04.2024** 

Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held its Extended Committee meeting at MZP President's Room on 09.04.2024 at 12:00 Noon to discuss the meeting request made by Mizoram Public Service Commission (MPSC). The meeting chaired by H. Lalthianghlima and attended 16 (sixteen) members decided not to honour the request of MPSC. On the contrary, MZP General Headquarters is reportedly intending to hold a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 10.04.2024 at 12:00 Noon on the issue of the controversial result of MCS Combined Competitive Examination, 2023 and the way MPSC conducted the said examination.

**DSI 10.04.2024** :

Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters held a Press Conference at Aizawl Press Club on 10.04.2024 at 11:00 a.m. regarding the alleged controversial result of MCS Combined Competitive Examination, 2023 which was conducted by Mizoram Public Service Commission (MPSC). The Press Conference presided over by H. Lalthianghlima, MZP President accompanied by 8 (eight) other students' leaders and was attended by 20 (twenty) media persons. At the Press Conference, MZP General Headquarters highlighted the following points :-

 i) MZP General Headquarters regretted the reported unfair and unjust   result of the Combined Competitive Examination which was declared on  01.02.2024 and had issued a statement in this regard on 27.03.2024.

 ii) Young job aspirants have trusted MPSC which had been conducting   examinations for recruitments of high ranking posts in the past.

 iii) However, in the last Combined Competitive Examination, there are  many instances where a correction pen had been used in the Mains  answer paper for correction and alteration of marks obtained by  candidates.

 iv) In the said examination, MPSC did not allow the issue of copies of  answer paper under RTI Act but allowed physical inspection including  taking a photograph only after enormous pressure from the public.

 v) MZP General Headquarters wishes that no such incidence to be  happened to any candidates in the future and urged MPSC to look into  their mistakes and make amends wherever necessary without blaming  the mark evaluators or the candidates reporting the mistakes committed  by MPSC.

 vi) As such, MZP demanded MPSC Chairman to take the responsibility and  resigned by this week for restoration of trust to MPSC by all the student  job aspirants.

 vii) MZP vowed to pursue its cause and take necessary steps for the   resignation of MPSC Chairman if its demand is not met.

**DSI 15.04.2024** :

Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) General Headquarters organised picketing of the office of Mizoram Public Service Commission (MPSC) on 15.04.2024 demanding the resignation of Pu JC Ramthanga, MPSC Chairman who was alleged by the students’ leaders to be the responsible person in the controversial result of the last Mizoram Civil Service Combined Competitive Examination. The picketing which started from 8:30 a.m. was participated by around 50 (fifty) MZP Headquarters leaders, MZP Advisers and few college students from Govt. Aizawl College and Govt. Johnson College. However, it is reported that MPSC Chairman had taken a leave for today while other staff of MPSC who tried to attend office were obstructed by the participants of the picketing. The picketing was called off for today by MZP General Headquarters at around 01:40 p.m. without any major law and order issue. Subsequently, MZP General Headquarters held a meeting at its office today at around 02:15 p.m. which was chaired by H. Lalthianghlima, MZP President and was attended by around 20 (twenty) persons. The meeting resolved that picketing of MPSC Office shall be continued tomorrow i.e. 16.04.2024 from 08:00 a.m. A Press Released issued by MZP in this regard stated that it will continue its agitation/demonstration till the resignation of MPSC Chairman and demand the evaluation of the answer papers for the recruitment of 3 (three) posts of Mizoram Forest Service for which an examination had already been conducted by MPSC.

**DSI 23.04.2024**_:_

It is reported that the Inquiry Officer, Pu M.Lalmanzuala, former MPSC Chairman in the allegation against Mizoram Public Service Commission (MPSC) in the conduct of Mizoram Civil Service Combined Competitive Examination, 2023 is finalizing his Inquiry Report and likely to submit the report by tomorrow, i.e. 24.04.2024