_HMAR PEOPLES CONVENTION_

 The Hmars, an ethnic group of Mizoram mostly settled in the North Eastern part of the State have been aspiring for a separate administrative set up mainly due to the instigation of the elite and educated members of the community who propounded that the Hmars are a separate ethnic community with distinct culture as compared to the Mizo speaking populace of Mizoram. However, it may be mentioned here that the Hmars were never regarded as a distinct ethnic community, historically and culturally. Their only distinctiveness is that they spoke the Hmar dialect which is however having very close affinity to Mizo - a dialect of the Luseis - which is now accepted as the official language of Mizoram. The Hmars also spread-out as far as Haflong in North Cachar Hills District of Assam and the Churachandpur District of Manipur. It may be mentioned here that the settlement of the Hmars in the adjoining areas of Manipur and Assam among other ethnic groups with distinct cultures and customs gradually made them ethnically self-conscious and vulnerable. This sentiment of alienation gave birth to political aspirations among the elite section of the community culminating in the formation of political platform such as the Hmar National Union (HNU) etc. as late as in 1957 with the proclaimed objective of preserving the democratic rights, culture and ethnic identity of the Hmars within their dominated areas of Manipur and Assam.

**_Demand for Autonomous District Council by HPC_ : The Hmars being a dominant ethnic group of Mizoram have never felt the need nor aspired for any special political status for their community in Mizoram. They were a secured and contented community. However, mainly due to the influence of the Hmars living outside the State, politically ambitious section of the community started propounding the need for preserving their democratic rights, culture and ethnic identity. In 1986 the Hmar Peoples Convention (HPC) was formed with the sole objective of the creation of an Autonomous District Council (ADC) for the Hmars within Mizoram. Simultaneously, extreme elements of the HPC cadres took up arms and resorted to violent unlawful activities like abducting and killing of the Mizoram Police personnel, extorting money etc. and thus jeopardising the law and order situation of the State particularly in the Hmar dominated area.**

_Signing of Peace Accord_**:**The Mizoram Police was geared up and the Government of Mizoram eventually managed to contain the activities of the HPC militants resulting in the signing of a Peace Accord on 27th July 1994. The HPC militants surrendered formally to the Govt. of Mizoram as per the provision of this Accord and these persons were given financial grants for their rehabilitation etc. The Govt. of Mizoram also agreed to set up the Sinlung Hills Development Council (SHDC) for the socio-economic upliftment of the people living in the Hmar dominated areas. Accordingly adhoc Chairman and members constituting the council were even appointed by the Govt. of Mizoram from among the leaders of the erstwhile HPC set up. Peace was thus restored in Mizoram after the signing of the Accord.

****

_Formation of HPC-'D'_**:**However, in spite of the above, there were still a disgruntled section of the HPC set up, led by Lalhmingthanga Sanate, the then General Secretary of the HPC who were not ready to accept the Peace Accord. Lalhmingthanga Sanate formed a militant outfit called the Hmar Peoples Convention -Democratic (HPC-D) in 1996 with its nerve centre at Hmarkhawlian (Lakhipur) in Cachar District of Assam. The HPC(D) was formed with the political objective of renewing demand for ADC under the active patronage of NSCN(IM). In 1997, about 15-20 cadres under the command of S/S Commander-in-Chief , Ropuia were sent to NSCN(IM) base camp in Bangladesh for training. They also received arms assistance from them.

****

****

_Objective_ : As mentioned above Lalhmingthanga Sanate did not come overground in 1994 as he refused to accept the Accord signed between the Govt. of Mizoram and the HPC set up. He remained underground and continued liaison with the cadres of the NSCN(I/M) and spent his time in Hmarkhawlian in Cachar District area and Haflong in North Cachar Hills District of Assam. He claimed himself leader of the un-subdued HPC faction still striving for a separate homeland for the Hmars.

 The HPC(D) may therefore be regarded as a group of disillusioned youths who can be branded only as 'Armed Gang' with no legitimate political cause. The HPC(D) in other words can be described as an armed organisation patronised by Hmar politicians who were often used or misused by them in the name of safeguarding the Hmar cause.

 The HPC (D) then split into two factions on 29.9.2011 following the impeachment of its president, Lalhmingthanga Sanate for signing a Deed of Agreement to join the Kuki National Organization (KNO). One faction is led by H.Zosangbera, General Secretary and the other by the deposed President, Lalhmingthanga Sanate. Lalhmingthanga Sanate's faction is less in number whereas H.Zosangbera's faction was actively involved in several criminal activities such as, ambush, kidnapping, extortion etc till the signing of MoU between them and Mizoram government in the year 2018.

 After 5th round of peace talk between HPC(D), Zosangbera faction and Government of Mizorama, a Political Level Peace Talk between the two parties was held under a cordial environment at the State Guest House, Aizawl during 7th &amp; 8th March, 2018 and the Peace Talk ended with a logical conclusion on 8.3.2018. The State Government and the HPC-D were represented by 10 (ten) members each. While the delegates of Mizoram Government were led by Pu Lalrinmawia Ralte, MLA and Political Adviser to Chief Minister; Pu L.T. Hmar, Working Chairman, HPC-D led the HPC-D delegates during the two-day Peace Dialogue.

 On 2.4.2018,Government of Mizoram and HPC-D (Zosangbera faction) signed a Memorandum of Settlement (MoS) at the function held at the State Guest House, Aizawl. Shri. Arvind Ray, the then Chief Secretary of Mizoram and Pu H. Zosangbera, Chairman, HPC-D signed the MoS on behalf of the State Government and HPC-D respectively. The signing of MoS brought an end to the over two-decades armed conflict of the HPC-D. The Arms Laying Ceremony of HPC-D was held at CTI, Sesawng on 13th April, 2018 wherein 102 Cadres and 12 Council Members of HPC(D) come to over ground at this ceremony. 44 different Firearms with 48 magazines and 2892 rounds of different ammunitions along with Radio Sets with charger were surrendered by HPC(D) at this ceremony.

Meanwhile, Lalhmingthanga Sanate, Founder President of Hmar People Convention (Democratic),who refused to come over ground during the Peace Accord signed by HPC(D) and government of Mizoram in the year 2018 still operated as HPC(D) with a handful of his followers.

 After he was ousted as President, Lalhmingthanga Sanate, with a handful of his followers continued their low profile activities in and around Assam (Hmarkhawlian) and Manipur (Jeribam) sides, mainly collecting donations by teaming up with members of Jeliang Rong United Front (JRUF), an outfit which was formed by some deserters of NSCN(IM) /NSCN(K).

 From 2012, JC.Hmar, Secretary and Ramchanlova @ RC.Singson, Army Chief, both of Lalhmingthang’s faction started entering Mizoram state and based themselves at Sunhluchhip and Sailutar villages. They began collecting donations from Vairengte and Suangpuilawn areas untill JC.Hmar was arrested by Kolasib District Police and sent to judicial custody. S/S Army Chief, RC.Singson was also arrested along with 5 of his men in Sailutar village on 4.2.2016. They were all later released on bail after which most of them started leading a normal life, even the Army Chief, RC.Singson settled down at Thenzawl, Mizoram with his family. Army Chief, RC.Singson was again arrested by Mizoram police at Thenzawl on 19th January 2024 as he was suspected to be involved in making threatening phone calls to local community leaders in Hmar dominated areas on the eve of 2023 Mizoram MLA General election.

Lalhmingthanga Sanate, S/S President, HPC-D was arrested at Cachar district, Assam on 24.10.2022 by a joint operational team of Assam police and Assam Rifles for his involvement in the murder of Norbar Sanate, former member of HPCD. After serving several months in judicial custody at Tejpur, he was later released on bail on dt. 15.05.2023.

Recently, on the evening of 16.02.2024 and 18.02.2024, suspected cadres of HPC (D). Lalhmingthanga Sanate faction conducted extortion activities mostly in between NEEPCO, Tuirial Hydel Project establishments and Mauchar Village and mainly targeted the non-indigenous traders plying through this road and at times collected money from illegal areca nut traders transporting areca nuts via Tuisenchhuah, Turial River towards Assam. It is learnt that these miscreant strike again on the evening of 05.03.2024 at around 04:00 p.m. and collected some amount of money from non-indigenous traders plying through Mauchar Village.