****INCIDENT ON INTER STATE BORDER WITH ASSAM****

1. On 27.2.2018, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) constructed "Zofate Chawlhbuk" (Shed) at Zophai, near Bairabi located at Mizoram-Assam border but the same was demolished by some person(s) on the same night. Similarly, Police Duty Post erected by Assam Police at the same disputed site on 2.3.2018 was also dismantled by some persons a few hours after it was constructed.

1. On****10.3.2018 @ around 11:00 a.m, a scuffle broke out again between Assam Police and members of Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) when around 100 (hundred) strong MZP members proceeded to the disputed site at Zophai near Bairabi along Assam - Mizoram border with their building materials to reconstruct ‘Zofate Chawlhbuk’ at the site. The students were intercepted by Assam Police before they reached the disputed site and they subsequently used force to disperse them. It has been reported that the Assam Police initially used Lathi but later on resorted to firing and around 8 (eight) shots were reportedly fired as a result of which one Ricky Lalchhandama, Secretary i/c Establishment, MZP reportedly sustained gunshot injury on his right ankle and around 49 (forty nine) others sustained injuries on their persons. Out of 49 (forty nine) injured MZP members, 7 (seven) of them reportedly sustained serious injuries and were referred to other Hospitals for necessary treatment. I was also reported that 8 (eight) media persons also sustained injuries. The Assam Police burnt down the temporary shed constructed by the MZP near the disputed site and the following vehicles belonging to MZP members were also ransacked by Assam Police :-****(1) Sumo - 1 no. (2) Taxi -1 no. (3) Car (Nano) - 1 no. (4) M/Cycles -3 nos.

1. On 12.4.2018, Joint Verification Team, comprising of officials from Mizoram and Assam started conducting spot verification of Inner Line Reserve Area along Mizoram-Assam border. It was reported that a total of 34 (thirty four) illegal constructions, including 2 (two) Masjids and 1 (one) School, were identified by the Joint Verification Team. Out of the total 34 illegal constructions, 1 (one) illegal construction was owned by Sangluaia (L) of Bairabi, Mizoram while the rest were owned by residents of Assam.

1. MZP General Hqrs. decided to pull out of the Core Committee which was set-up to conduct Survey on the actual Boundary on 3.8.2018 as they felt that the Core Committee was unable to make any conclusive report within the stipulated time.

1. On 6.4.2019 officials from Assam Forest Department started renovation work of one building located at the disputed Mizoram-Assam Forest Reserve area along the Aizawl-Silchar National Highway and reported that the building was occupied on the same night. Meanwhile, one platoon from 1st IR Bn of Mizoram Police also occupied old BRTF camp which was approximately 100 mtrs from the existing Mizoram Police Check Gate which was highly welcomed and supported by civilians.

1. In regard to this, both DC and SP, Kolasib also proceeded to Vairengte and a meeting with NGOs of Vairengte was held on possible Law &amp; Order situation and its prevention.

1. MZP Executive Meeting held on 8.7.2019 appealed the Government to take necessary action for vacating the said building by Assam Forest Officials on or before 12.7.2019 and if failed, demanded to construct Zofate Chawlhbuk at Zophai, Bairabi on or before 17.7.2019. Should the said shed not constructed within the stipulated time, MZP have planned to organise “Ramchhan Kawngzawh” on 19.7.2019.

1. In the meantime, the Council of Ministers meeting held on 8.7.2019 upheld the Cachar Inner Line, 1875 as enacted as per Section 2 of Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulations, 1873 (Regulation 1 of 1873) as the basis for settlement of border issues.

1. Recapping past development, on 3.9.2015, a meeting between District Administration of Kolasib, Mizoram and Cachar, Assam was held at CIJWS Conference Hall, Vairengte and resolved that Status Quo ante shall be maintained in the respective Forest Areas. No department activity/encroachment by any department or public shall be allowed. In case of any illegality which is in violation of the Forest Act/Rules/Regulations in force, the matter shall be brought immediately to the notice of the counterpart Range Officers/ Divisional Forest Officers.

1. About 4,000 students of various colleges took to the street on 19.7.2019 in protest against alleged inaction of the Government of Mizoram towards solving the boundary dispute with Assam. The processionists shouted slogans mainly deploring Government's inaction on boundary issue. They adopted 5 (five) resolutions at the procession. MZP protesters also burnt existing map of Mizoram as they did not accept the boundary demarcation. The student protesters dispersed peacefully and no untoward incident has been reported during the procession.

1. As per information received,MZP Gen. Hqrs. is set to convene its Executive Meeting on 10.8.2019 @ 11:00 a.m in their office to discuss the on-going construction of Masjid and storeroom in the disputed Mizoram-Assam border at Zophai, Bairabi. Input indicates that MZP, owing to their dissatisfaction of the actions of the Government and the Core Committee set up on inter-state border issues between Mizoram and Assam, intends to organize “Total Bandh’ tentatively on 13.8.2019 or 14.8.2019.

1. The Core Committee set up by the Government under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary to oversee Mizoram-Assam border dispute held its meeting on 8.8.2019 at CS Conference Hall, MINECO, Aizawl. The Committee decided that the Deputy Commissioner, Kolasib should arrange meeting with the Deputy Commissioner of Hailakandi District, Assam at the earliest in connection with construction of Boitul Mukram Jama Masjid at disputed Mizoram-Assam border and its related issues. It has also been decided that in order to maintain status quo, construction of Masjid should be stopped and all the structures, both temporary and permanent should be removed and all construction materials should be removed from the site.