****ZOKHAWTHAR INCIDENT****

 Information has been received that Adjutant, 8 Assam Rifles submitted a letter to the Superintendent of Police, Champhai giving intimation on an incident at Zokhawthar. In his letter, he stated that they conducted checking of illegal trade in Zokhawthar area which heightened tension in the area. It was also stated that Law and Order situation may arise in the coming days and requested the civil administration to take necessary action.

 According to further information received, the Assam Rifles were checking illegal trade activities in Zokhawthar and have stopped the trade of betel-nut and fertilizer across the Mizoram-Myanmar border since 7.9.2019. This further led to discontentment among the people of Zokhawthar since 80% of the total population are engaged as porters.

 In this regard, it is learnt that the VC of Zokhawthar met the Deputy Commissioner, Champhai on 11.9.2019, but were not satisfied with the outcome of the meeting as they considered the Deputy Commissioner as supporting the action of the AR. It was also learnt that a group of porters were intending to directly approach the AR camp at Zokhawthar, but they were being dissuaded by the VC and NGO leaders.

 In this connection, Mizoram Police deployed 2 (two) Platoons of Force from 2nd IR Bn., Khawzawl on 18.9.2019 for Law &amp; Order duty at Zokhawthar, Champhai District. SP, Champhai convened a meeting with Village Council &amp; leaders of NGOs on 18.9.2019 at Zokhawthar Police Outpost. Leaders of Zokhawthar NGOs apprised the meeting about their grievances and stated how they had no intention of creating Law &amp; Order problems. They further mentioned about their utter amazement and disappointment over the deployment of Police forces.

 Consequently, Zokhawthar VC &amp; All NGOs issued a Press Release on 18.9.2019 wherein they highlighted about their surprise over the unexpected deployment of Mizoram Police at Zokhawthar on 18.9.2019 for Law &amp; Order duty and expressed that action as uncalled for. Highlighting about their full obedience of any instruction of the Assam Rifles and stating their non-intention to create Law &amp; Order problems, the PR demanded the authority to find out and punish any person who gave wrong information to the authority which resulted in wastage of Government’s money in deployment of Police forces. The PR also highlighted about difficulties faced by their village due to the stoppage of trade of some items across Mizoram-Myanmar border since 7.9.2019 by 8th Bn. Assam Rifles and a meeting called by DC, Champhai in this regard inviting all stakeholders which was scheduled to be held on 19.9.2019. They also expressed their optimism of solving the problems and further demanded the Government to withdraw the Police forces deployed at the earliest.

 Presently, imports of betel nut and export of fertilizers through Zokhawthar area have been stopped to this day as a result of the restriction imposed by the Assam Rifles. The Law and Order situation of the area has also been contained and additional IR police personnel deployed were also withdrawn from the area.