****TUICHAWNGCHHUAH****

On 11.1.2019, various Chakma civil society organisations namely, the All India Chakma Students’ Union (AICSU), the Rashtriya Chakma Tribal Sangh (RCTS), the All India Chakma Social Forum (AICSF) and the Central Mizoram Chakma Students’ Union (CMCSU) issued a joint Press Release stating that on 10.1.2019 (Thursday), a team of four youths identifying themselves to be members of Mizo Students’ Union (MSU) visited Tuichawngchhuah village and ordered the demolition of one under-construction house belonging to Puspo Ranjan Chakma, S/o Ranga Soga Chakma, a resident of Tuichawngchhuah in violation of Gauhati High Court judgement vide W.P. (C) No. 134 of 2016. The PR further alleged that these youths threatened to torch the entire village if their diktat was not obeyed and further demanded Rs. 2,000/- from the villagers to cover their conveyance cost. The PR added that the impoverished villagers could collect only about Rs. 300/- which was handed over to the MSU leaders. The PR also accused the Police duty at Tuichawngchhuah of colluding with the student body against the Chakmas. The NGOs demanded immediate action from the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Mizoram, Pu Zoramthanga and the Director General of Police, Pu Balaji Srivastava, IPS for the registration of FIR against the concerned MSU leaders and the Police personnel stationed at Tuichawngchhuah. The PR demanded that appropriate compensation also be paid to the owner.

On the same day, i.e. 11.1.2019, MSU Sub-Hqrs. Lungsen issued a statement on social media stating that on 10.1.2019, leaders of MSU Sub-Hqrs. Lungsen namely, C. Laldinsanga, President; Pu Z.D. Vanlalsawia, Adviser; Pu F. Aitluanga, Adviser and Laldinpuia Punte visited Tuichawngchhuah Chakma settlement and found 1 (one) house under construction which was later dismantled on their request. The statement stressed that Tuichawngchhuah is an illegal settlement and strongly object construction of a new house by Chakma(s) in violation of Gauhati High Court order. The statement strongly opposed any illegal Chakma settlement and urged the Government to take appropriate action.
In connection to the above, information received indicated that 4 (four) members from MSU Sub-Headquarters, Lungsen visited Tuichawngchhuah on 10.1.2019 (Thursday) and found that one Puspo Ranjan Chakma S/o Ranga Soga Chakma was constructing a house at Tuichawngchhuah where he had already erected 10 (ten) bamboo poles. The poles were removed by the owner and construction was discontinued at the behest of the MSU. Information further added that Puspo Ranjan Chakma left Tuichawngchhuah 4 (four) years before and settled under Undarmanik village area cultivating land. He then intended to resettle back to Tuichawngchhuah by starting construction at a location which he claimed was his previous house site. Information also added that MSU members had collected Rs. 340/- from Tuichawngchhuah settlers and Rs. 1,500/- from Village Council of Tuichawng for transportation cost. Puspo Ranjan Chakma S/o Ranga Soga Chakma was reported to have already left Tuichawngchhuah when the Mizo Students’ Union (MSU) leaders allegedly burnt down the Government Primary School at Tuichawngchhuah on 26.2.2016 as a reaction to Gauhati High Court order which stayed the order of DC, Lunglei for eviction of Tuichawngchhuah settlers. It has also been reported that the MSU did not have any objection about repairing or construction of a new house for replacement by the same household of Tuichawngchhuah but strongly objected construction of a new house by new settlers. The MSU Sub-Hqrs., Lungsen also appeared to have no objection to Puspo Ranjan Chakma and his family (6 members) joining the household of their relatives at Tuichawngchhuah.

Instead of the quoted “W.P.(C) No. 134 of 2016” by the joint Press Release by various Chakma civil society organisations, the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court, Aizawl Bench issued a judgment on W.P.(C) No. 21 of 2017 on 24.8.2018. The Hon’ble High Court then set aside and quashed the eviction order of the Deputy Commissioner, Lunglei District dated 17.12.2015 and further stated that the respondents, i.e. the State Government, however, were not precluded from taking a decision to evict the settlers at Tuichawngchhuah sub-village but if such action is contemplated, the Government will be required to scrupulously follow the mandate of the provisions as provided in the VC Act.

Further, it appeared that the civil society, especially the Mizo Students’ Union (MSU) is not aware of the Hon’ble High Court judgement which set aside and quashed the eviction order of the Government. As such, it could not be ruled out that a Law &amp; Order situation could flare up in the area when the students’ body became aware of the judgement since there has been a report of intention to take stern action by the MSU if the Court passes a judgement in favour of the Chakma inhabitants.

As the Court did not preclude the State Government from taking a decision to evict the settlers at Tuichawngchhuah, an emergency meeting of concerned authorities such as Law &amp; Judicial Department, District Administration of Lunglei and Local Administration Department convened by the Home Department is deemed highly appropriate to work out a solution to the issue to prevent possible Law &amp; Order situation arising out of it. 

****13.2.2019 :**__A meeting to discuss about the unauthorised settlement at various places within Lunglei and Mamit Districts was held on 13.2.2019 @ 10:30 a.m at the office chamber of its Chairman, Pu K. Lalrinliana, Hon'ble MOS i/c LAD, etc. which was attended by 18 (eighteen) members including representatives from CYMA, MZP and MSU besides the Government officials. Information has been received that the meeting resolved the following:-**

i)  The Government to issue an order to repatriate all unauthorised settlers to their original settlement.

ii)  The Government to conduct spot verification of the unauthorised settlements at the earliest with representatives from YMA, MZP and MSU prior to the repatriation.

iii) Stoppage of all development works of the Government in the unauthorised settlements.

iv) Stoppage of all development funds to the obstinate settlers who disobeyed the Government's repatriation order.

**4.3.2019 :**__Information has been received that 9 (nine) members from Chawngte Group YMA and Mualbu visited Chengkawllui (an alleged illegal Chakma settlement), Lunglei District on 4.3.2019 @ 10:00 a.m, to check on the inhabitants of the illegal settlement. However, all the Chakma settlers, comprising of 16 (sixteen) households, had already evacuated the settlement with most of their belongings by the time the YMA members reached Chengkawllui. The YMA members burnt down 15 of the 16 huts, which were found empty, so that there will be no more homestead to return to while 1 (one) hut was left un-burnt as there were household items like clothing, utensils, beddings, etc. inside the hut.

These illegal settlers were earlier notified by Tawipui Group YMA on 26.1.2019 to leave their settlement before the end of February, 2019. Even though the area falls under Lunglei District it was easier to approach from Chawngte (Lawngtlai District) side. Therefore, YMAs of Chawngte-P and Mualbu-L under Chawngte Group YMA had performed the checking even though the area falls under Tawipui Group YMA area.

**13.3.2019 :**__MSU Gen. Hqrs. issued a Press Release on 13.3.2019 expressing concern over alleged negligence on the part of LAD in the execution of High Court Order for eviction of illegal Chakma settlers at Tuichawngchhuah and other villages, which was issued in August, 2018 and which remained unexecuted. The Press Release stated that MSU President Vanlalliana, accompanied by 2 (two) Secretaries during their visit of the offices of DC and SP, Lunglei in the afternoon of 12.3.2019 had apprised them of their commitment to continue their campaign for eviction of alleged illegal settlements. Further highlighting their meeting with Church leaders (MKHC), the MSU had also invoked withdrawal of various facilities, such as, School Education, Power and Water Supply, etc. the Church leaders had provided to the Chakmas, in the interest of safeguarding the land and nation.

****18.3.2019 :**MSU Gen. Hqrs. issued a Press Statement on 18.3.2019 reiterating its intention to take steps for abolition of illegally established villages inside Mizoram. Citing reference of Sibinesora in Lunglei District which was successfully abolished in 2013, the MSU urged upon the Government to abolish the illegal establishment at Tuichawngchhuah within March, 2019 and threatened to adopt measures as deemed proper should the Government fails to take action during the given period. The statement termed the Government report showing 49 houses with a population of 222 at Tuichawngchhuah as false, and asserted that MSU Sub-Hqrs., during their joint verification with Tuichawng V/C during January, 2019, had found only 14 houses and also deplored providing of power supply, water connection and School building to the illegally established villages. MSU further expressed strong disapproval on the part of Lunglei District Administration as well as LAD Secretary for their negligence of not following the provisions of V/C Act, which they contended, was the fallout of High Court's intervention, resulting in prolonged delay in the Eviction order.**

****22.3.2019 :** Leaders of MSU Gen. Hqrs. led by Vanlalliana Khiangte, President held a meeting with LAD officials on 22.3.2019 @ 1:30 p.m at the office chamber of Pi Zoramthangi Hauhnar, Secretary, LAD at the behest of the latter. The meeting was prompted by MSU's pressure on the Government to evict illegal Chakma settlers in different parts of Mizoram setting a deadline till March 2019, and threatening to take the Law in their own hands. It is learnt that the MSU had deferred their proposed eviction programme for an indefinite period as the LAD Secretary apprised them of the Government's intention to issue eviction order before 31.3.2019. In the meantime, the MSU intends to closely monitor action being taken by the Government in this regard.**

****1.4.2019 :** A meeting of MSU Gen. Hqrs. Executive Committee was held on 1.4.2019 @ 12:00 noon at their office which was chaired by J. Lalmuanzuala, Vice President and attended by 15 (fifteen) members. The meeting had discussed about their plan to carry out eviction of Chakma illegal settlers at Tuichawngchhuah, and consequent upon the Government’s failure to issue an eviction order within the deadline period, they decided to carry out the eviction themselves. The meeting had detailed a team of 8 (eight) persons led by Samuel Zoramthanpuia, Gen. Secretary who will leave Aizawl for Lunglei on this evening @ 4:00 p.m. In the meantime, the MSU President and party, who were returning from Champhai will also proceed straight towards Lunglei on 1.4.2019 itself.**

 It may be recalled that the MSU had, on earlier occasion, criticised the Local Administration Department as well as District Administration for their alleged negligence which had prompted the High Court’s intervention, and attempt by LAD officials to persuade them ineffective. It is reported that DC and SP, Lunglei are in readiness to pre-empt any eventuality of the situation getting out of hand.

 Input suggests that given the internal problems befalling the MSU Regional Hqrs., Lunglei, the MSU Gen. Hqrs. in all likelihood would seek every opportunity to integrate and regroup the members. Hence, the eviction of Chakma illegal settlers.

****2.4.2019 :** It has been reported that the MSU’s Eviction plan had been thwarted following coordinated efforts by DC and SP, Lunglei, who had succeeded in persuading the MSU not to go ahead with their plan to evict illegal Chakma settlers at Tuichawngchhuah. As reported earlier, DC and SP, Lunglei in close coordination with the local NGOs, held a meeting at DC’s Office, Lunglei immediately on the arrival of MSU leaders on the night of 2.4.2019 @ 11:30 p.m. After prolonged discussions, the MSU had conceded the appeal by the District Administration not to visit Tuichawngchhuah and await action being taken by the Government in this regard.**

****(28.5.2019**_: Information has been received that Pi V. Lalmuanpuii, SDO(C), Tlabung held a meeting of Government officials with Village Councils (VCs) and All NGOs within Tlabung Sub-Division on 28.5.2019 @ 1:00 p.m at her office chamber which was attended by 17 (seventeen) persons. The meeting held a discussion about unauthorised settlements within Lunglei District during which Tlabung YMA reported that the following are unauthorised settlements in addition to the list prepared by DLAO, Lunglei District :-_**

_i) Lareveng (Under Khojoysuri VC)_

_ii) Letisuri (- do -)_

_iii) Khojoysuri-chhuah (- do -)_

_iv) Bornosuri (- do -)_

_v) Nokokchora (Under Hmundo VC)_

_vi) Dulsuri (Under Malsuri VC)_

_The meeting decided that Forest Department should ascertain whether these settlements fall under Forest Reserve Area and submit report within the first week of June to SDO(C). Tlabung YMA was also entrusted to seek out any settlement within their area that could be recommended for sub-village. The meeting also decided that no action should be taken by anyone in addition to those taken by the authorities through legal means.)_

****28.5.2019** : Information has been received that Local Administration Department had issued an order on 28.5.2019 for the eviction of 49 (forty nine) households of Tuichawngchhuah hamlet in Lunglei District instructing them to abandon their un-authorised settlement within 3 (three) months from the receipt of this order. They will be liable to a fine of Rs. 100/- per day after the end of this stipulated period. Forceful eviction will be resorted to as the last option if these unauthorised settlers persisted to stay at the location. **