****Point No.6.Bru Issue****

**HISTORY**

Brus also called Reangs are nomadic tribe living in the western belt of Mizoram bordering Bangladesh and Tripura State. Brus started entering into Mizoram around 1940's and engaged themselves in jhum cultivation. They were living in 14 villages in Kolasib District, 11 villages in Lunglei District and 46 villages in Mamit District and spread over 9 Assembly Constituencies (i.e. Hachhek, Dampa, Mamit, Tuirial, Kolasib, Serlui, Lunglei South, Thorang and West Tuipui)

 A militant outfit called Bru National Liberation Front (BNLF) was formed in 1996 under the leadership of Vanlalliana of Tuirum village, Mamit District. On 21.10.1997, Lalzawmliana, Forest Game Watcher, posted at Dampa Forest Sanctuary was killed and two of his friends were abducted by BNLF. The news of the incident spread like wild fire throughout Mizoram and ignited the already heightened tension in the area due to the demand of Autonomous District Council by Bru National Union (BNU). Tension between the two communities escalated and Bru people started fleeing Mizoram towards Tripura as a result of false rumours and fear psychosis being spread and generated by certain quarters of the Bru community. The then upcoming election in Tripura was also believed to have played a role in the mass exodus.

Bru people who fled Mizoram were given refugee status in Tripura. They were provided shelter in six refugee camps (Kaiskau, Khakchangpara, Hamsapara, Naisingpara, Asapara and Hazacherra) and were also given free rations and other essential commodities at the rate fixed by the Union Government. Mizoram Bru Displaced People’s Forum (MBDPF), created in 2002 with its headquarters at Naisingpara camp, is an apex body for Brus living in refugees camps in Tripura.

After a number of meetings between Central and State authorities, commencement of the repatriation of the Bru refugees was fixed i.e. 16th November, 2009. While all preparations were going on smoothly, Bru militant group, who called themselves as Bru Revolutionary Union (BRU) killed one Mizo youth Zarzokima (17) of Bungthuam village, on 13th November, 2009. It was later confirmed that it was done deliberately by BRU in order to deter the repatriation process.

 **BRU REPATRIATION PROCESS**

Amidst these kinds of situations, Mizoram and Central Government devised plans to repatriate these refugees to Mizoram several times without much success. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India has set the deadline for Repatriation of Bru refugees latest by 30th September, 2019. There were 1,681 families (8,869 members) repatriated during 1st to 8th Batch (i.e. 2010 to 2018). 4,323 families were already re-identified in 2019 and 26,365 family members are expected to be repatriated in 2019 which commenced on 03.10.2019.

****ISSUES AFFECTING THE SUCCESS OF BRU REPATRIATION****

**1.** Different organizations of Mizoram insisted on repatriating Mizoram Brus origin only, i.e., bonafide residents of Mizoram, which can be traced from the records of Mizoram Electoral Roll, 1995 and their genuine descendants.

**2.** Some of the more educated and enlightened leaders of Brus, insisted at all costs, to prevent the repatriation as they are benefited by their fellow Brus being given a refugee status. Donations/contributions so collected amounted to huge amount which are worth something and greatly desired by those in high position. Hence, they resort to demanding of various points, most notably demand of Autonomous District Council for Brus, which are unacceptable to Mizo community and even the Government.

**3.** The 9th and Final phase of repatriation commenced on 03.10.2019

****Point No. 7 Demands of groups to be included in the ST Lists****

 Presently there are no groups in the state demanding to be included in the list of Scheduled Tribe. But inclusion in the list of Other Backward Class (OBC) is the long standing demand of the Gorkhas living in Mizoram. They have filed a Petition to the Hon’ble Gauhati High Court, Aizawl Bench which is still kept pending by the High Court.