**Point No.3&5: Trans-Border Crimes and illegal movement through Border/JMB Movement across border and in Indian Border States.**

 On 27.7.2019@ 9:30 p.m, a group of villagers of Silsuri West, Mamit Dist informed HC Satish Kumar, BSF, that two unknown persons were roaming in the village market area and accordingly they brought to BSF BOP Silsuri. Preliminary inquiry has been conducted by G Coy, 90 Bn BSF stationed at BOP Silsuri and during the enquiry it was revealed that the two apprehended persons were Bagladeshi nationals namely (i) Mahmud Hasan(25 yrs) S/o Gulbarg Ali, Behar Char Narsingdi Dist, Bangladesh (ii) Mohammad Sayad Hussain(30 yrs) S/o Shayaib Hussain, Magura, MaguraDist, Bangladesh and they were staying in India without any valid documents/passports.

 BSF personnel had also recovered 2(two) nos. of Fake Aadhaar cards , Magnetic Compass, 4 nos. of Mobile phones with 6 nos. of SIM cards,etc from them. During the preliminary interrogation, the Bangladeshi nationals revealed that they stayed in Kanchanpur,Tripura and were in touch with unknown person through website(protectedtext.com) and also received money from an unknown person. Study material relating to explosives written in Bengali language was also found in the internal/external memory of one of the mobile phone. On suspicion of their involvement in anti-national activities, SM AadilHashmin, Coy Commander, G Coy, 90 Bn BSF BOP Silsuri submitted an FIR to Officer –in-Charge, Marpara Police Station. Accordingly, the FIR was received by OC Marpara PS on 29.7.2019@ 1:15 A.M .

 Hence, Marpara Police Station Case No.7/2019 Dt 29.7.2019 u/s 471,476 IPC r/w 14 Foreigner Act has been registered and SI H.Lalengliana, OC Marpara PS took up the initial investigation of the case.

 Sustained interrogation of 2(Two) Bangladeshi nationals namely Mohammad Shahad Hossain (30) S/o Mohammad Shuyaib Hossain, Magura Village and Mahmud Hassan (25) S/o Gulbarg Ali (L),Bahar Chal, Narsingdi Dist., apprehended at Silsuri on 27.07.2019 (Saturday) has been conducted at SB Hqrs, Aizawl by a joint team of various intelligence agencies since 30th July’ 2019. During the course of interrogation, the following information’s were obtained:

1. They are both members of Ansar-Ul-Islam, based in Bangladesh who were recruited in 2016. Both had undergone 1 month training-in Protective text sending, recce, sketch drawing and 9mm Pistol handling, Hindi language. Both have separate handlers, Munir for Mahmud Hassan and Boshir Ahmed for Mohammad Sayad Hossain.
2. They have infiltrated into India during October of 2018 via Boxanagar in Tripura at different times. Mohammad Sayad Hossain was based at Kanchanpur in Tripura, while Mahmud Hassan was based in Banglalore.
3. All communications were made through secure Protective Text (PT) channel and avoided using mobile phone calls.
4. They occasionally received money in cash from their respective handlers through other operatives varying in amount as per their requirements.
5. They were tasked to make sketches of Bangalore and later Mizoram-Bangladesh border.
6. Encrypted documents stored in their mobile phones include messages related to Islamic indoctrination, instruction manual for IED, guerilla warfare tactics, recce and Ops methodology.
7. Md. SayadHossain had entered alone into Mizoram upto Rajiv Nagar from Kanchanpur, Tripura on 19th July’ 2019 to recce the area as instructed by his handler Boshir Ahmed. Later, on 22nd July’ 2019, he was joined by Mahmud Hassan from Bangalore and both entered into Mizoram to Recce the border area on 25th July’ 2019.
8. They used fake Aadhar Card by the name of Shariful Islam S/o Shafiqul Islam (Mahmud Hassan) and ShohanMolla S/o SanowarMolla (Mohammad SayadHossain) for entry into India as well as their further movement elsewhere in the country.
9. Several money transactions made through **SBI A/C (20385789755)** of Ms. Hazera Bibi, Maldah, West Bengal, was also retrieved from the mobile phones of Mahmud Hassan.

**Point No.4. HUMAN TRAFFICKING**

 

 1. 24 Human Trafficking related cases reported to Police since 2000

 2. 2(two) major cases of Human Trafficking solved -

 (i) October 2010 Goa Rescue Case – 4 victims rescued.

 (ii) June 2011 Mumbai Rescue Case – 4 victims rescued, 3 culprits arrested,   tried and found guilty, penalized. 7 years, 6 years and 1 year rigorous   imprisonment with fine awarded them.

 3. Due to awareness generated by Police, Social Welfare Department,   District Child Protection Unit, NGOs etc. incidents on Human Trafficking  has gone down in Mizoram.

 4. The Superintendent of Police CID(Crime) was appointed State Anti Human   Trafficking Nodal Officer.

 5. All Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) were appointed as Special Police   Officer (SPO) within their respective jurisdiction to deal with offences  under Immoral Traffic Prevention Act.

 6. AHTU has been established in Aizawl, Aizawl, Lunglei, Kolasib and   Champhai Districts.

****Human Trafficking cases in Mizoram during the year 2019****

1. **Rohingyas intercepted at Vairengte Check Gate**

- On 23.4.2019 at 11:30 PM, one Sumo Maxi Cab vehicle bearing Registration Number AS 01- BC 0951 carrying 8 (eight) females, proceeding towards Aizawl was detained at Vairengte Police Check Gate. The driver of the vehicle Sojol Roy s/o Kutinenu Roy of Kabuganj, Cachar, Assam stated that on the evening of the same day, Amrul, owner of the vehicle, had directed him to carry the girls from Sumo Counter, Silchar and drop them at Zemabawk Petrol Pump, Aizawl where one unknown person will pick them up.
- The mode of transportation raised suspicion and the girls along with the driver were taken to Vairengte PS. It was learnt that the girls spoke Rohingya language and upon examination of the girls (aged between 15-22) with the help of an interpreter, they stated that they were all from Myanmar and presently residing in Kutupalong Refugee Camp, Bangladesh and that they had been enticed to go to Malaysia for a prosperous future by one Anamal Hussain and they had agreed.
- Vairengte PS Case No. 42/19 dt. 24.04.2019 u/s 14 Foreigners Act was registered against the 8 persons for illegal entry into India.
- The accused persons were produced before the Fast Track Court, Kolasib and the Hon’ble Judge passed an order dt. 25.04.2019 convicting the accused persons u/s 14 Foreigners Act, sentencing them to undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 1 day with fine of Rs. 50 each. The Court further ordered that after the term of conviction and sentence is over, the accused persons shall be detained at Foreigner Detention Centre at Silchar until their deportation and legal formalities for their deportation shall be processed by the concerned authorities,
- Home Dept. Govt. of Mizoram vide its letter dt. 30th April,2019 has requested Assam Government to convey approval to facilitate the detention of the foreigners at Foreigner Detention Centre, Silchar. Till date, there is no response from Govt. of Assam.
- PHQ has written to Home Dept., Govt of Mizoram on 9th May, 2019 requesting to notify one vacant building at Vairengte Police Station Complex as a temporary Foreigner Detention Centre and also to take steps for setting up an official Foreigner Detention Centre in Mizoram. In reply to PHQ letter, Home Department in its letter dated 23rd May, 2019 conveyed approval of the Government to designate new vacated building at Vairengte Police Station complex as Foreigners Detention Centre on temporary basis.
- The eight(8) Rohingyas are presently detained at the Temporary Foreigner Detention Centre at Vairengte till date.
- Details of the eight(8) Rohingyas are enclosed in Annexure I.

1. **Foreigners located at EdentharVeng, Aizawl**

- On the basis on inputs from local NGOs of EdentharVeng, Aizawl, on 05.05.2019 12 non-indigenous persons (4 males and 8 females) were found staying at the residence of Pi Denghliri of EdentharVeng without any ILP.
- Upon enquiry it was revealed that the twelve(12) persons were being illegally trafficked by Madiki of Tahan Myanmar from Bangladesh to Mizoram from where they will be further transported to foreign countries. The said Madiki had contacted her relative Pi Denghliri of Edenthar who had received the said twelve (12) persons.
- Upon examination Pi Denghliri she revealed that she had received 6(six) batches of such persons as per the directions of Madiki of Tahan through one sumo driver named Dawnga.
- Bawngkawn PS Case No. 117/19 dt. 06.05.2019 u/s 370(3)(5)/34 IPC was registered in this regard.
- The foreigners (victims) were produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aizawl on 06.05.2019 and as per Court’s Order, the 8 (eight) females have been placed in Ujjawala Protective Home under Social Welfare Department and the 4 (four) males are kept in Hermon Children’s Home. As on date they are still detained, pending their deportation.
- 2 (two) accused persons have been arrested in connection with the case.
- Details of the twelve(12) Rohingyas are enclosed in Annexure II

1. **Rohingyas intercepted by Dungtlang OP, Champhai**

- On 15.06.2019 one Tata Sumo bearing registration no. MZ 01 K 4816 carrying eight(8) non- Mizo girls who are suspected to be trafficked towards Myanmar, was intercepted at Dungtlang Police Check Gate. Champhai PS Case No 59/19 dt. 17.6.2019 u/s 370 (3)(4)(5) IPC was registered in this regard.
- As per the statement of the driver H Lalzamawia s/o Lakamlova of Leithum Village, the girls were to be taken uptoSaikhumphai village (Mizoram-Myanmar border) where they were to handed over some other person.
- Dungtlai Police laid a trap in Saikhumphai and manged to arrest one Suidinliana s/o Thathawmliana of Khawthlir, Myanmar aka Jonathan and Nguntindawng s/o Thabuantai of Khawthlir, Maynmar aka Dawnga who came to Saikhumphai to pick up the girls.
- Unfortunately, the two arrested persons managed to escape on the way to Champhai PS.
- The arrested driver stated that this was the second time he had transported non-Mizo girls to Saikhumphai and in the first instance the girls were also handed over to Dawnga.
- The victims stated that they were from Kutupalong Refugee Camp, Bangladesh and were taken out from the Refugee Camp on the pretext of shopping and had been forcible transported from Cox Bazar, Bangladesh.
- On 25th June, 2019, the eight(8) victims were transferred to Protective Home, Aizawl as per CJM, Champhai Order No. C.31013/1/2019-CWC(CPI) dt. 24.6.2019.
- Details of the eight(8) Rohingyas are enclosed in Annexure III

1. **Rohingyas intercepted at Bawngkawn, Aizawl on 04.07.2019**

- On the night 04.07.2019 based on inputs received from Kawnpui PS, Bawngkawn PS staff intercepted one Maxi Cab bearing Registration Number AS II 1899 transporting 4(four) Rohingya females (one minor) at Selesih.
- Due to the suspicious nature of transportation, Bawngkawn PS Case No. 158/19 dt. 04.07.2019 was registered to ascertain if these girls were victims of human trafficking.
- The driver of the Maxi Cab, one Taj Uddin Borbhuiya s/o M.A. Borbhuiya of Silchar was arrested and he stated that he had been offered Rs. 10000 by unknown handlers to transport the girls from Silchar to Aizawl where they would be picked up by another Maxi Cab.
- Another Maxi Cab driver, Lallawmpuia(36) s/o Hranghlira of Bawngkawn who was supposed to pick up the girls for further transportation from Aizawl to Zokhawthar was also identified and arrested. His Maxi Cab bears Registration Number MZ 01 H 4623.
- Four(4) temporary ILPs issued by the Dy. Resident Commissioner, Mizoram House Silchar with photograph of the girls but with different names were seized from the possession of the girls.
- On 8.7.2019 Lalhmingmawia @ Kawlmawia(51) s/o Manglianchhuma(L) of TahanVutbuak, Myanmar, who contact the mizo sumo driver from Zokhawthar regarding transportation of Rohingyas was arrested at Zokhawthar and is being forwarded to Aizawl.
- Details of the four(4) Rohingyas are enclosed in Annexure IV.

1. **Rohingya intercepted at Champhai on 18.6.2019**

- On 18.6.2019 a minor boy was found alone crying at Zokhawthar Village by MHIP Zokhawthar (NGO).
- The boy was produced to Zokhawthar OP and then to Champhai PS.
- He was then accommodated at Rose Home Champhai. FIR was thereafter submitted by HC F.Lalrinmawia of Champhai PS as the boy was suspected to be kidnapped and taken to Myanmar by unknown traffickers.
- Champhai PS C/No. 83/19 dt. 6.8.2019 u/s 370(4) IPC was investigated.
- Details of the boy is enclosed in Annexure V.

1. **Rohingyas intercepted at Champhai on 26.8.2019**

- FIR submitted by SI Robert Lalhmuakliana of Zokhawthar OP
- On the night of 26.8.2019 @7:00 pm, three minor girls were found at Tahan Hotel, Zokhawthar who were suspected to be trafficked and proceeding towards Myanmar.
- In this regard one Farooq Ahmed of Assam was arrested at Champhai.
- Champhai PS C/No. 89/19 dt. 27.8.2019 u/s 370(2)(3)(4)(5) IPC was registered.
- Details of the victims are enclosed in Annexure VI.

The three victims were lodged at Rose Home Champhai and occasionally visited by Champhai Police.

**Findings of investigation**

- Mode of transport – Hired Maxi-Cabs (Sumo)
- Movement controlled from Myanmar side through calls made to local Mizo Maxi Cab drivers with directions for pick and drop of Rohingyas.
- As per investigation reports, involvement of locals to the extent of harbouring and transporting of victims for financial gain with little knowledge of further movement of victims. Contacted through mobile from Myanmar.
- All the Rohingyas detected in Mizoram are placed in Temporary Foreigner Detention Center, Vairengte, Protective Home, Aizawl and Hermon Children’s Home, Durtlang as per orders of the Hon’ble Court and steps are being taken for their deportation.
- In some cases the victims stated they were taken by deception while some victims state that they intend to go to Malaysia through Myanmar for better employment opportunities.
- So far, the main traffickers are yet to be arrested.

**Status of Rohingyas in Protective Home and Temporary Foreigner Detention Centre**

******The status of Rohingyas in Protective Home Aizawl, Hermon Children’s Home Aizawl and Temporary Foreigner Detention Centre Vairengte were physically checked and submitted a report on the first week of every month. Four Rohingyas in Hermon Children’s Home were shifted to Salvation Army Boy’s Home Muanna In at Mualpui. During the visit, their basic necessary amenities were provided by the authorities or not were looked into. Their physical condition was observed during the visit and were all found to be in good conditions. Their main difficulties was the desire to go home.**

On 11.10.2019, a meeting was held in the Office Chamber of the Home Secretary and discussed the plans and preparations for the deportation of Rohingyas in Mizoram. In this regard, necessary arrangements are being undertaken by the Mizoram Government to re-unite the victims with their families.

**Annexure I**

1. Toyaba (22) d/o Soyid Salam of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
2. Robina (20) d/o Soyid Salam of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
3. Tis Min (19) d/o Dilma Ahmed of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
4. Sokina Khatun (18) d/o Shehel Ahmed of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
5. Noor Kayas (18) d/o Karim Mulla of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
6. Attoriza (18) d/o Mutar Ahmed(L) of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
7. SenowaraBegum(18) Abu Subinyan(L) of Kutupalong, Bangladesh
8. SuminaraBegum(18) d/o Hasim Mulla(L) of Kutupalong, Bangladesh

**Annexure II**

1. MoniraBegum(18) D/O Ali Ahmed Of Khumbor, Kutupalong, Bangladesh
2. Mazida (18) D/O Mohamad Toip, Kutupalong, Bangladesh.
3. Asma(20) D/O Sultana, Kutupalong, Bangladesh.
4. NasimaAkhtar(16) D/O Taidul Islam, Mosuni Camp, Bangladesh.
5. Dinuas (18) D/O Mohamad Talam, Kutupalong, Bangladesh.
6. Husni Jamila 920) D/O Javarm Ullah, Mosini Camp, Bangladesh.
7. Rehena Bibi (18) D/O Noor Islam, Kutupalong, Bangladesh.
8. Noor Bibi (18) D/O Soli Mullah, Kutupalong, Bangladesh.
9. MahamadIyaz (18) S/O Imam Solip, Kothuala, Bangladesh.
10. Abdul Sammat(18) S/O Abdullah, Kothuala, Bangladesh.’
11. Mahmud Iyaz(19) S/O Abdul Shama, Kothuala, Bangladesh.
12. Ajadur Rahman (20) S/O Lalumi, Kothuala, Bangladesh.

**Annexure III**

1. AshmaAkhtar(14) d/o Abdul Husoon , Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
2. FatamaAkhtar(14) d/o Mohamed Sidik, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
3. Ruhaida(11) d/o Mohamed Toyed, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
4. Sadiya(11) d/o Hamid Hussain, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
5. Mabiya(12) d/o Mohamed Solim, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
6. Yasmin(14) d/o Normohamed, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
7. Rashida(13) d/o Mohamed Sultan, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh
8. Nulkala @Tasulima(15) d/o Abu Kalam, Kotofalon Refugee Camp, Bangladesh

**Annexure IV**

1. Kun Suma (20) d/o Noor Hussein of Balu Khali Camp, Bangladesh
2. Noor Kayas (20) d/o mDAyub of Balu Khali Camp, Bangladesh
3. Noor Sehera (14) d/o Noor Hussein of Balu Khali Camp, Bangladesh
4. Haleda Begum (12) d/o Dil Hussein of Balu Khali camp, Bangladesh

**Annexure V**

1. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
2. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
3. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
4. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar

1. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
2. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
3. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar

1. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar
2. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar

1. Arif Ullah (14) s/o Hasan of Myanmar

**Annexure VI**

1.Purbima Begum (13) d/o Sazir Ahmed of Buthidaung

2.Zubeira Begum (14) d/o Mohamed Yunus of Buthidaung

3.Sadhikun Nahar(16) d/o Soyan Noor of

**Point No.6 NRC/CAB Likely Fall Outs:**

**NATIONAL REGISTER OF CITIZENS**

 Government of Assam published Final Draft of National Register of Citizens(NRC) on 30th July,2018 which left more than 40 lakhs population as illegal foreigners. Following this, the Government of Mizoram immediately took pro-active measures by deploying additional Forces along Mizoram-Assam border and other strategic points to prevent influx of illegal foreigners into Mizoram. But, unhappy with the actions taken by Government, Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) issued a Press Release on 16.8.2018, in which they highlighted that MZP has strongly urged Government of Mizoram to take necessary steps in checking illegal entry of non-indigenous persons from entering Mizoram in the wake of publication of National Register of Citizens(NRC) by Government of Assam. MZP alleged that he State Government has not taken necessary initiatives and in this regard and stated that they will take necessary initiatives in checking non-indigenous persons from entering Mizoram illegally. MZP urged its Headquarters, Sub-Headquarters and Branches from inter-state borders to establish check gates and start checking of illegal entry into Mizoram. MZP also urged the authorities not to issue Inner Line Permit(ILP) to non-indigenous persons from Assam who are not registered under NRC.

 In the Press Release, leaders of MZP highlighted that since 16.8.2018, they have established check posts to prevent foreigners from illegally entering Mizoram and also stated that as many as 424 (four hundred twenty four) foreigners were detected from check gates at Bairabi, Vairengte and Saiphai. MZP also highlighted that the detected foreigners trying to illegally enter into Mizoram were pushed back in collaboration with Mizoram Police.

 Central Young Mizo Association(CYMA) held a meeting on the topic of ‘Safeguarding Mizoram’ with 6(six) members representatives each from all YMA Branches within Aizawl City on 30.8.2018 @ 7:30 pm at Vanapa Hall, Aizawl. Pu R.Lalngheta, Vice President, CYMA presided over the meeting which was attended by about 400(four hundred) YMA representatives. The meeting elaborated on the need to prioritize a careful and co-ordinated enforcement of Inner Line Permit by all YMA Branches in the wake of publication of Final Draft of National Register of Citizens by Government of Assam.

**PROTEST AGAINST CITIZENSHIP(AMMENDMENT) BILL, 2016**

**1. TOTAL BANDH IN PROTEST AGAINST CITIZENSHIP (AMMENDMENT) BILL, 2016 ORGANISED BY MZP :**

 MZP Gen. Hqrs. Organized a state-wide Total Bandh on 8.1.2019 from 5:00 am to 4:00 pm along with Student Union of other North East states under the umbrella of North East Students Organization(NESO) in protest against the Citizenship(Amendment) Bill,2016 purportedly to be passed by the Parliament. MZP Gen. Hqrs. Deployed volunteers at 16(sixteen) junctions/points within Aizawl. Elaborate and systematic security arrangement was made by Mizoram Police. Government Offices, Educational Institutions, shops, NGO’s offices, Oil filling stations, etc. remain closed during the bandh.

 A copy of the said Citizenship(Amendment) Bill, 2016 was burnt by L.Ramdinliana Renthlei, President, MZP at Treasury Square, Aizawl @ 1:35pm.

 It was also reported that as many as 37 (thirty seven) non-Mizos who were found loitering during the Total Bandh were produced by MZP volunteers at the nearest Police Stations for their safety till the bandh was called-off.

 MZP Hqrs., Lunglei and Champhai also expressed their gratitude to the people of Lunglei and Champhai respectively for their cooperation and support during the Total Bandh by issuing a Press Release. It was reported that as requested by Mara Students’ Organisation (MSO), Siaha, Government Offices and educational Institutions in Siaha remain closed during the bandh.

 The Total Bandh was also observed by Headquarters, Sub-Headquarters and Branches of MZP at their respectively places.

 MZP Gen. Hqrs. Called off the Total Bandh @ 4:00 pm as per schedule. There was no untoward incident reported during the bandh.

**2. PROCESSION IN PROTEST AGAINST CITIZENSHIP (AMMENDMENT) BILL, 2016 ORGANISED BY MZP :**

 Thousand took the streets in Aizawl and elsewhere in major towns of different districts across the State in protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Bil, 2016 on 23.1.2019. The procession was organized in pursuance of NESO’s ‘Protest Rally’ programme earlier scheduled to be carried out in all North-east states before 30.1.2019. In Aizawl, about 15,00 (fifteen thousand) protesters, most of them students in their uniforms, participated in the procession. The procession, as earlier scheduled, started @ 11:00 am from Khatla and Zarkawt, and converged in front of Vanapa Hall. Slogans were raised and placards displayed denouncing the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016.

 Pu Vanlalruata, CYMA President in his speech, expressed fear that Mizos and other religious minorities of the NE states could easily be assimilated if the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 is passed by Rajya Sabha. The MZP President, L.Ramdinliana Renthlei who also addressed the crowd, threatened to take up arms and revive underground movement if the CAB is not passed in accordance with the wishes of the Mizo people. Announcing the NGOCC’s decision to boycott the Republic Day, the MZP President also asked the students to stop coming to Lammual (AR Ground) to practice parade from the next day (i.e. 24.1.2019) onward.

 The Procession adopted the following resolutions :-

i) To safeguard our land against the foreigners, we the Mizos will fight till our last  breath.

ii) The Central Government should not implement the Citizenship (Amendment  Bill), 2016 as it is unsafe for the pwople of North East.

iii)  If the Government implements Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 we will  assume that the Government is favouring the foreigners over its own people living  in the North East.

iv)  If the Government turns deaf ears to our plea, we the Mizos will not sit idle.

 Effigies of Shri. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India and Shri. Rajnath Singh, the then Union Home Minister were burnt at the end of the procession and procession in protest against Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 was also carried out at different places in Mizoram.

**BOYCOTT OF REPUBLDIC DAY, 2019 BY NGO Co-ordination Committee (NGOCC)** :

 The celebratory function of the 70th Republic Day celebration, 2019 was boycotted by NGOCC in protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 on 26.1.2019. The protestors, estimated to be around 250, gathered outside the 3(three) entries of AR Lammual preventing civilians, students and others not listed in the discussion between the Government and the NGOCC held on 25.1.2019 from entering the venue .

**Point No. 7. CIRCULATION OF FAKE INDIAN CURRENCY NOTES (FICN) & FOLLOW UP ACTION:**

 1. FICN are usually trafficked from Assam into Mizoram.

 2. Kingpins of fake currency racket are hardly arrested. Those arrested are usually either carriers and/or commissions.

 3. Better co-ordination with law enforcing agencies of neighbouring states is required to effectively combat trafficking of FICN and also to arrest the kingpin.

 4. Seizure of FICN by Mizoram Police varies in different years.

 5. Seizure of FICN has gone down in 2018.

**Point No.9.INTER-AGENCY CO-OPERATION:**

 CID(SB) of Mizoram Police have been extending cooperation with other agencies in terms of intelligence sharing and operations against armed gangs, drugs/arms/FICN smugglers.

 Apart from recent seizure of drugs in Champhai vide CPI PS C/No. No. 101/19 dt. 1.10.2019 u/s 21(c)/25 ND&amp;PS Act, Champhai PS C/No.102/19 dt.2.10.2019 u/s 21(c) ND&amp;PS Act and Champhai PS C/No.103/19 dt.3.10.2019 u/s 25/29 ND&amp;PS Act, which was the result of good cooperation between SB Staff, Champhai Dist. Police and Assam Rifles, seizure of FICN with BSF at Vairengte vide Vairengte PS Case No.84/19, Dt.12.10.2019 u/s 489 B/489 C/34 IPC, the arrest of S/S Sgt.Major Lalbiakliana, a hardcore member of the erstwhile HPC(D) on 16.10.2015, to mention a few are noteworthy results achieved through inter agency cooperation.

****CONFIDENTIAL****

****OFFICE OF THE Sr. SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE****

****CID(SB) : MIZORAM : AIZAWL****

No.MSB/CB/A-137/ Dated Aizawl,the Oct.,2019

To

 The Deputy Inspector General of Police(CID),

 Mizoram, Aizawl.

Subj :- Holding of Directional Level Co-ordination Meeting of LIA.

Ref :- No.G/OPS-1/LIA/M&amp;C-tr/2019/631-76 dt.7.10.2019.

Sir,

 With reference to the letter No. and subject cited above, I am enclosing herewith the required notes on agenda’s to be discussed during Directional Level Co-ordination Meeting of LIA on 23.10.2019 at HQ Mizoram and Cachar Frontier BSF, Masimpur, Silchar, Assam.

 Put up for favour information and further necessary action.

Enclo : As above.

Yours faithfully,

**(K.LALREMSANGA)**

Sr. Superintendent of Police,

CID(SB), Mizoram, Aizawl.