**Interrogation Statement in r/o accused (Shamsul Alam) & Lalengzauva dt. 12.6.2019 in con-with Champhai PS Case No.44/19 Dt. 01.06.2019 u/s 22 (c) ND&PS Act.**

Name - Shomsul Alam

F/ Name - Abdul Hamid (L)

Age - 50 yrs.

Nationality - Myanmarese .

Shomsul Alam basically hails from Buthidaung, Rakhine State, Myanmar. Due to Communal conflict in Rakhine, he had fled Buthidaung during May 2012 and crossed over to Bangladesh (Buthidaung- Maungdaw – cross Bangla border – Teknaf – Cox Bazar – Dhaka). At Cox Bazar he met a ‘Dalal’ (middlemen) where the Dalal (middlemen) demanded 14,000 Bangladesh Taka. He had brought 5,00,000 Kyat from Buthidaung with him which he exchanged to Bangla Taka at Teknaf, the first village on the Bangla side @ 30000 Taka. From Dhaka during the same month he proceeded by bus and reached Feny border after Bus ride and reached the Indian side (Basirhat/West Bengal) by Bus. Again through a Dalal he exchanged the Bangla Taka to Indian rupees. He was again helped by the Dalal to reached Howrah Train Station by an Indian Dalal and reached Delhi by Train. On reaching Delhi, he put up at Kajori area, North Delhi where other Rohingyas who were already there. He started to eke out a living by doing cement work at Construction sites.

In the meantime, got himself registered in UNHCR vide Reference No. 305-12C00427, Indvidual No. 305-00083812 he started moving different parts of India. During 2013, he moved to Jammu where Rohingya refugees are staying (under Neherwal P/S). The same year he was elected by the community as Chairman of the Rohingya Refugee Community/Jammu (2013/2016). As per his revelation, one Jagat Foundation, Shahim Bag, New Delhi has been helping the Rohingyas in New Delhi. He came back to New Delhi in 2016 where he stayed with his wife namely Jahanara Begum (45 yrs) at Vakispuri locality in a flat where other Rohingyas were also living (Near UNHCR Office).

 He visited Myanmar in March, 2017 where he stayed at Pangal Basti (Muslim locality) Moreh, Manipur and stayed there till December, 2018. During this period he came into contact with one Dil Mohammed (34 yrs) from Agartala (A business/dealer in Sand and Chips). In the meantime he also got into contact through social networking sites with one of his old associates by name Chi Tu from Kalaymyo, Myanmar. Since he could not speak Mizo, a Myanmarese Chin namely Lunpi (a domestic help working at the house of Indian origin trader in Kalay) has been utilised to find a local (Mizo) to start business dealing.

 During February, 2019 he came to Aizawl via Silchar without any valid documents where he stayed at Hotel Sangchia, Zarkawt (about 10 days) to acquaint himself with the locality, and went back to Delhi. Again he came back to Silchar from Delhi during the first week of April 2019 as he learnt that ILP is compulsory for entering Mizoram. In Silchar with the help of Local Auto Driver (name not known) he made a fake Voter ID in the name of Muktab Uddin Mazarbhuya / No.LSY2439181 with a simple process by getting his photo pasted on Muktab Uddin Mazarbhuiya’s voter ID card. He then entered Mizoram via Vairengte the same month and stayed at Hotel Sangchia for 02 days where he met two Myanmarese nationals (Chi-Tu’s uncle and nephew) and discussed about business plans in second-hand clothes). One local Myanmarese working as a domestic help known as Mawitei was contacted by Lunpi (mentioned in the previous para) at the behest of her employer. Mawitei (now back to Myanmar) helped Shomsul Alam in finding a house owned by Pu PL Thanga, IAS Retd at Chaltlang, Aizawl (opposite Transport office). However, to rent a room in Aizawl needs a ‘No Objection Certificate, Lunpi, who happened to be the niece of Lalzampuii, wife of the co-accused Lalengzauva @ Patea r/o Rawpuichhip Village, contacted the latter to help out the Shomsul Alam. Accordingly, after getting the requisite documents from Lalengzauva, he stayed for two weeks during which he managed to make friendship with Lalengzauva to help him in his business dealing in Betel nut and mat, which he intended to import via Myanmar. Further with the help of co-accd Lalengzauva, Shomsul Alam shifted to Rawpuichhip where he rented a Forest Department Quarters @ Rs 3000/- per month. He stayed there for about two weeks during which he applied for an ILP from DC’s office, Aizawl. He then moved to Tripura as he felt insecure staying without ILP.

 During the months of May 2019, Shomsul Alam had tasked Lalengzauva to bring his consignment of contraband drugs from Zokhawthar. Lalengzauva in the meantime contacted a person by name Haukhenkhama r/o Venthar, Champhai. Both Lalengzauva and Haukhenkham transported the consignment without being detected on two occasions (first one with 20 boxes containing two lakhs tablets / and second one 11 boxes containing one lakh, ten thousand tablets) and handed over to the Shomsul Alam through other operative (unidentified) at Agartala (usually near Gas pump). He paid Rs 2,00,000/- (two lakhs) on the first occasion &amp; Rs. 1,10,000/- (one lakh, ten thousand) on the second instance for safely delivering the consignments. It has been revealed that Lalengzauva gave Rs. 20,000/- to Haukhenkham. After delivering the consignment for the second time, Haukhenkham had told Lalengzauva that he did not want to interfere in the bussiness anymore. Lalengzauva accordingly had intimated the same to Shomsul. However, Shomsul Alam requested him to once again help him and promised to purchased a Bolero if they could bring the third consignment for him. On 30.05.2019 @ 12 : 05 p.m. Shomsul Alam sent a mobile number (9774085763) followed by a voice message @ 12 : 06 p.m. instructing Lalengzauva to make a call at the number which Lalengzauva did, and giving further instruction to co-accd Haukhenkham, transaction of the contraband was carried out accordingly at Zokhawthar the same night. The consignment later kept concealed at the residence of Haukhenkham was seized by the Police on 01.06.2019 and, in the meantime both Lalengzauva and Haukhenkhan were apprehended before they could deliver the same to their handler.

_During interrogation, Shomsul_ Alam had admitted having carried out illegal drug deal on three occasions; twice during May, 2019 which were successfully delivered to him by the duo, and the third and last consignment having been intercepted and seized by Police at Champhai, for which he is also prepared to testify before court.

Outcome of the interrogation had been discussed with SP, SDPO Champhai &amp; I/O of the case, wherein it has been suggested that I/O pursues authentication of contents of WhatsApp messages to be used as evidence for prosecution.