****BOMB BLAST AT MIZORAM-CACHAR BORDER, 2019****

****I.**  There was **bomb blast at a mosque named ‘Bhaithul Mukharram Jamma Masjid’ located near Zophai in the disputed Inner line Forest Reserve area around 0215 hours in the intervening night of 23rd – 24th May, 2019.** The blast had caused partial damage to the mosque building without casualty. Local people (Bengali Muslims) of the area had blocked the road in protest against the blast though there was no report of violence. The road blockade by local Bengali residents was also lifted at 2:20 p.m following the request by the District Administration. There has been no report of communal problem after the blast. DCs/SsP of both Kolasib and Hailakandi Districts rushed to the spot and subsequently held a meeting at PWD IB, Bairabi in which they resolved to take all possible measures to prevent possible law and order problem and to maintain peace in the area. In this connection, **Bairabi PS Case No. 16/2019 dt. 24.5.2019 u/s 295/436 IPC r/w Explosive Substances Act has been registered.****

****BOMB BLAST AT MIZORAM-CACHAR BORDER, 2020****

**I.**A **Bomb blast occurred at SSA Lower Primary School** on **22.10.2020 @ 10:15 p.m** and the blast was believed to have been caused by using **gelatin dynamite**. The said school is run by Assam Government and is located at around 300 meters from Saihapui 'V' Village and around 400 meters from Mizoram Police Camp at Assam-Mizoram border towards Mizoram. The said blast completely destroyed 2(two) main doors of the school building and 6(six) windows, blown away GCI roof and made a hole(around 2(two) feet in diameters) at the southern corner of the wall.

 **In this connection, Vairengte PS C/No.31/20 Dt.23.10.2020 u/s 436/448 IPC r/w U/s 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 was registered.**

**II.** A series of **bomb blast** occurred on **7.11.2020 @ 1:20 a.m., 1:27 a.m.** and **1:30 a.m**. at **Upper Painon (Phainuam) Lower Primary School (A Bengali medium School run by Assam government), Buarchep (also known as Upper Phainuam)** and the blast was believed to have been caused by using **gelatine dynamite.** The school is located at **around 750 meters towards northern side from Buarchep Village and 350 meters inside Mizoram from Assam-Mizoram border**. The school is a semi RCC Building measuring about 45 x 18.8 ft. The blast blown away GI Sheets roof of the School building veranda and caused several cracks and holes on the walls and the right most column of the building was also damaged. It also caused partial damaged to the School Kitchen building which is located at the right corner of the School building.

 In this connection, a suo moto case has been registered at **Vairengte Police Station vide C/No.37/20 Dt.7.11.2020 u/s 436/448/120 IPC r/w 3(1). The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, 3(a), The Explosive Substances Act 1908.**

****BOMB BLAST AT MIZORAM-CACHAR BORDER, 2021****

**1.** A **bomb blast** occurred **2(two) times** at **Mulibali LP School around 20 metres from Ramri Lui towards Assam side(which is located at around 1500 metres north of Bairabi Police Station) on 3.2.2021 @1:27 a.m.** The blasts damaged the newly constructed Toilet cum Bathroom and Water Tanky, which were located near the School. The blasts were believed to have been caused by **Gelatine dynamite**. ASI Arvind Kumar &amp; party rushed to the spot immediately while Pu C.Vanlalvena, Addl.SP, Kolasib and party reached the spot on 3.2.2021 @ 10:30 a.m. and necessary enquiry was conducted. FSL team from Aizawl arrived at the PO on 3.2.2021 @1:45 pm. and after observing and examination of the PO they left the PO on 3.2.2021 @ 3:50 p.m. A team of Assam Police led by O.C. Ramnathpur, Assam; Shri.Megh Nidhi Dahal, IAS, DC Hailakandi; Shri.Pabindra Kumar Nath, APS, SP Hailakandi and Soma Roy, SDO Katlicherra Circle also visited the spot on 3.2.2021. In this connection **Bairabi PS C/No.02/21 dt.3.2.2021 u/s 448/436 IPC r/w 3 (a) Explosive Substances Act,1908 r/w 3(1) The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,1984 has been registered.**

**2.** On the evening of **9.2.2021 @ 9:22 p.m., a bomb blast occurred at Kachurtol LP School, located at around 300 meters, west of Zophai BOP towards Assam side, beyond Bairabi Lui/Ramri Lui (boundary river), near Assam-Mizoram border.** The blast, which was believed to have been caused by **Gelatine dynamite** damaged the brick walls of the said School. Pu R. Vanlalduata, SDPO Kolasib, along with ASI Lalfamkima, Bairabi PS and party visited the PO on 10.2.2021 @ 9:00 a.m. and conducted necessary enquiry , 2 (two) experts from Forensic Science Laboratory, Aizawl led by Richard Lalhnehzova, JSO visited the PO on the evening of 10.2.2021 @ 3:25 p.m. and they left the area at around 4:30 p.m. after conducting necessary scientific examination of the PO. **In this connection, Bairabi PS C/No.05/21 dt.10.2.2021 u/s 448/436 IPC r/w 3 (a) Explosive Substances Act,1908 r/w 3(1) The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,1984 has been registered.**