****REPORT IN C/W LETTER SUBMITTED TO THE HON’BLE CM BY SILCHAR TRUCK DRIVER’S ASSOCIATION (STDA) ON 18.11.2020****

A) STDA in their letter listed the details of 9 (nine) numbers of vehicles alleging that they could not unload their loads as Rs.30,000/- was illegally demanded as fine and compelled to pay the amount. It requested the Chief Minister to take necessary proactive measures so that the listed trucks safely reach their destinations and unloaded their goods and return back safely to Assam.

B) i) Recapping past developments in this connection, All Mizoram Cement &amp; Iron Rod Dealers Association (AMCIRDA) issued a Press Release on 20.10.2010 in which it alleged Shri.Rajib Uddin Lasker, Lailapur (aka, Raju, owner of Ruma Enterprise, Lailapur and Star Brick Industry) to be the main person who incites violence in every disputes at Mizoram-Assam border. It appealed all residents of Mizoram not to engage in any business dealings with the said enterprise and it also urged their members to refrain from import and sale of Star Brick and further warned that necessary action will be taken against any defaulters. It also listed the registration numbers of vehicles allegedly registered in the name of Raju and his business partner Nasir Uddin Laskar.

ii) ZPM Thalai Headquarters in its Press Release issued 13.11.2020 demanded for cancellation of registration of vehicles belonging to Raju, businessman of Lailapur, Assam as he is the ringleader responsible for enforcement of economic blockade against Mizoram. It stated that as the said Raju is not a resident of Mizoram and does not have any registered office in Kolasib or Aizawl districts, it demanded for cancellation of registration of 9 (nine) vehicles registered in Mizoram. It also appealed all Mizo businessmen to remember the 9 (nine) vehicle registration numbers and not to have any business dealings with them and further requested not to purchase any items from his shop at Lailapur, Assam. It also listed the registration numbers of the 9 (nine) vehicles owned by Raju.

iii) All Mizoram Cement and Iron Rod Dealers Association in their Press Release issued on 14.11.2020 stated that Zualtea Business Centre, Bawngkawn Aizawl received Sand (balu) on 13.11.2020 which was transported by a vehicle belonging to Lasker (partner of Raju of Lailapur) which they claimed to be hired by their supplier Amir of Lailapur. It also stated their regret regarding the stated incident and they took necessary action against Zualtea Business Centre by imposing fine of Rs. 30,000/- and debarred from selling sand for a period of one month. It further stated that vehicles number of Raju and his partners were distributed to all stores and appealed all residents of Mizoram not to purchase goods from Raju of Lailapur.

iv) On 15.11.2020 @ around 10:00 p.m., 1 (one) Assam-Mizoram bound Truck bearing Registration No. MZ 05-A-3067, belonging to Niaz Uddin Laskar of Lailapur, Assam, transporting Sand from Bagha, Assam was illegally stopped and the Driver was forced to dumped the load (v/o Rs.36400/- approx) at the outskirt of Sairang by some members of Sairang Dinthar Drivers Union and some locals of Sairang. The act was allegedly done as the vehicle was believed to belong to Rajib Uddin Laskar @ Raju of Lailapur, Assam, against whom strong bitter feelings prevails among certain quarters due to his active involvement during the recent roadblock enforced against Mizoram at Lailapur. A case was registered at Sairang Police Station vide Case No. 24/2020 DT. 16.11.2020 u/s 341/427/506/34 IPC and a total of 15 (fifteen) accused persons were arrested in this connection and further necessary action is being undertaken.

In this regard, ZDU General Headquarters issued a Press Release today in which it condemned the above act which was done in the name of ZDU and announced their non-involvement. It further urged all its constituent Sub-Headquarters, Branch and Unit not to initiate action on their own and to await instruction of ZDU General Headquarters

C) With regard to a letter submitted to the Hon’ble CM by STDA, the matter was enquired and it is learnt that no fee or fine of Rs.30,000/- is imposed against any non-Mizo driver or vehicle owners. STDA incorrectly mentioned it in their letter which was also duly admitted by them today stating that they have received wrong report from the Driver.

In the present situation, it is also learnt that 9 (nine) vehicles listed to be belonging to Raju have voluntarily decided not ply to Mizoram till situation normalizes.

It is also doubtful that member(s) of AMCIRDA will make any business dealings with Raju in the current scenario due to fear of their Association's punitive action.